---
title    : "Going Down To H-Town With Mad Rhyme"
date     : 2003-05-13 00:40:00 -5
category : old-posts
era      : college
---

Well hello, everyone!  I'm so happy!  My domain is almost finished up.  I've still got some files to move, make sure everything is working right, and make a new layout.  The resident evil <del> 0</del> layout is starting to get old.  But I have to admit, it is the best layout I've ever made.  I'm gonna miss seeing it.  <em> *sob*</em>  Well Aaron, I guess you finally got me back, check out his <a href="http://gresevil.signmyguestbook.com" title="Guestbook"> g-book</a> entry if you wanna see his mad lyrics.  I've been getting tired of going off on you lately.  I guess I need to start writing about something or somebody else.  Aiight Aiight, here goes.

Uh Uh Uh /
I'm comin down to H-town for the next two days /
Fore' I roll in I gotta stop by work and get paid /
Come down there, find a Highland whore, and get laid /
Stop by pick up Vinnie and Wade /
Go to the Gameroom and play my game /
See Aaron's ass up there /
Challenge him in a game of pool, he's gettin scared /
The game I play is rare /
But after that we'll get drunk and show our ass bare /
Head up T-Roy /
See Clint and da rest of his boys /
Get drunk ass f*ck /
And ride through the Gump /
Find some Monkey-Town hoes who wanna get crunk /
Pick up two more cases fore' we ride back through H-Town /
Listenin to some old rap songs while we get down /
Drink a fifth of Crown /
Go down to the football field /
Talk about the old times and how we feel /
Just sittin back tryin to chill and keep it real /
Just like we always do /
Me, my boyz, and the rest of the crew /
What the hell we gonna do? /
I'm a get drunk as f*ck, how bout you? /

Well there it is!  Woo-hoo!!!  Rhyming is the only thing left to keep my sanity.  Anyways, my boy, my crackheads.  Here is the final words of wisdom:  <em> Give me a paper and pen, so I can write about my life of sin, a couple of bottles of Gin in case I don't get in.  ~Tupac</em>  Well that should conclude this edition of <em> Useless Sh*t On The Web</em>.  Oh yeah, If I don't blog, you oh so avid readers, in the next couple of days, it's because I might not have internet access down in H-Town.  So Farewell........  ~greenshady
