---
title    : "Wednesday, April 23, 2oo3"
date     : 2003-04-23 03:22:00 -5
category : old-posts
era      : college
---

Once again it is in the wee hours of the morning, the sun not quite yet has started to yawn over the <em> murky</em> sky.  The night air chilled my skin just a lil' as I just recently stepped outside to smoke a cigarette.............Well anyways, I just got off the phone with my homeboy, G-Daddy, discussing his arrival for the Timmy's welcome home party this weekend.  Then we talked of the usual: school, our social lives, school, a lil' bit more bout the party, more school, and ended with a fresh twist of a lil' more school talk.  That's about all I got to talk to any former *class of 2oo2* graduates about any more.  But me in G got a some other stuff to chat loosely into <em> mindless</em> crap about.  Not much more.  But some.  I'm finally finished with my first final today.  See?  Here I go off again on school.  My life has gotten toooo boring.  I really gotta get *plastered* this weekend.  Which I will.  No doubt about that.  I feel like it now.  But I gotta get out of bed in like 5 hours.  Wait.....I'm not even in bed yet.  Of course not, I'm never in bed with more time to sleep than like 4 hours every night.  I guess that's what afternoon naps are for.  Well bla bla bla.....and bla.........That's bout all I get left to say for the time being.  I will spend up useless webspace again tomorrow morning.  Until then *carpe diem* (latin=sieze the day).  Once more, another bit of great content.  Latin lessons for you so great *avid readers*  Well I bid you good morning.  ~greenshady
