---
title    : "Aaron Working Like A Mexican Soldier"
date     : 2003-05-09 15:33:00 -5
category : old-posts
era      : college
---

SoOoOoOoO Sorry, to those avid readers who love this little <em> useless</em> section on the the world wide web.  I've been really busy lately.  I just finished up my last final exam Tuesday.  Then I've been working the last two days.  Well.......I partied last night also.  Gotta relieve a little stress.  I was pretty wasted last night.  Oh Well.....
Aaron...I've been thinkin up some new rhymes for you today.  I think I might just hit you with a couple of em'

Uh-Uh-Uh /
Your sorry ass works in Dozier /
They got you sewing clothes like a Mexican soldier /
Your two bucks an hour won't even afford a cup of Foldgers /
You workin so hard you got hemmorroids that look like boulders /
What?  You don't believe me? Just bend over and look at your ass /
You need to pull that tampon out your crack /
Try to talk sh*t to me, I'll have to smack you back /
With a backhand coming swift and fast /
You haven't even begun to feel my wrath /
I'll laugh at you like a H-Town whore when you came to fast /
OHHHHHHHHHH

Sorry crackhead.....I didn't mean to hit you that hard man.  You know I'm just messin around with you with these def lyrics.  Aiight....Anyways, let me end this <em> useless</em> section of the <i> Worst Thing To Hit The Internet Since Pop-ups</i> with some words of wisdom.  <em> Drinking and Driving isn't bad.  It's Driving while you're Drunk that's bad.</em>
So Long.....So Farewell........To all you people who have enough <em> useless</em> time on your hands to partake in reading this crap.  ~greenshady
