---
title    : "Thursday, October 21, 2004"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2004-10-21 10:56:00 -5
category : old-posts
era      : college
---

Unfortunately, I'm getting to bed a little later than I wanted to tonight. Yep, another talk about me not getting into bed on time for my blog. Usually, I write in this thing just before bed, so that's what's always on my mind at this time of the night. Anyways, another long hectic day for me. Which that's what Tuesday's and Thursday's are like for me. My mom decided to take a visit up tonight, so I had the pleasure of watching over my youngest siblings for a while, and talking to the family. So not much in the way of anything else. I went to class, went to work, went to work-out, then came home to spending time with part of the family. Now, don't get me wrong, it's not a bad thing. I love to see family and friends whenever I can get the chance. But I was just looking forward to a nice quiet evening. Especially on one of my harder days. Now I have to get up at 6:00 in the morning, go to Weightlifting class, then do some yardwork for this older couple. I would like to just relax. The weekend doesn't look to great either, except for the Auburn / Kentucky game. But I have to start and finish up my Java program that's due on Monday. And I have to continue working on <i> Highland</i> things, website things, and try to get some sleep in at the same time. RELAXATION...sounds...like a nice dream. I think that's about enough useless ranting about my boring, yet busy life. I guess I'll be going to bed sometime in the next few minutes.

<em>Updates</em>...Unfortunately, none whatsoever, once again. I'll be sure to get something great up in the next few days for all you unfortunate few who stumbled across this pointless corner of the web...
