---
title    : "Friday, March 26, 2oo4"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2004-03-26 14:35:00 -5
category : old-posts
era      : college
---

Well...Folks...My computer has been ticking me off lately.  Something went wrong, and my internet stopped working, for some reason.  I don't know why.  But here I am, again.  I guess they can't keep me down forever.  I got it working by restoring my system to a week ago.  Hopefully, everything is going to be working fine.  If not, I might go crazy.  I mean, I just got the thing working properly like 2 weeks ago.  Anyways, I'm going home this afternoon.  I got to meet up with some old friends.  Hang out.  Do our thing or whatever...  So I might not be able to give useless crap to readers for the next few days.  I think I'll be staying until Tuesday.  Yeah, definitely no later than that.  I might not necessarily have access to a computer once more.  But it is Spring Break for me starting tomorrow.  So I have to let off a little steam, since I'm not going to Panama City this year, like I do every year.  No biggie.  It's starting to get old anyways.  And plus, most of my friends had Spring Break this week.  So they'll all be back in school Monday.  And I'll be bored.  I guess I'll just have to hang around the net for like a whole week solid.  That'll give me time to come up with some fresh ideas for the site.  A little innovation doesn't hurt every now and then.  I'm already working on a Kate Beckinsale and a Penelope Cruz layout.  So I'll probably have one of the two up by the end of next week.  I just can't keep one layout but for so long.  Anyways, I'm starting to even bore myself now, so I guess I'll have to end this piece of poop ranting for now.  I hope to blog to random people once again later today.  <em> ~greenshady</em>
