---
title    : "Wednesday, November 10, 2004"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2004-11-10 01:07:00 -5
category : old-posts
era      : college
---

And...Another day passes by...And another unproductive 24 hours in Justin Tadlock's existence passed away...

I must have the saddest outlook on life itself. Every day is just another one passed by, waiting for something, bigger, better; something that doesn't exist, or is lost somewhere out there floating around in the future. Or maybe I just need to be put up in a nut-house somewhere in a foreign country, in which, I can't speak their language. Anyways, my day was just another normal day. School, work, weight-lifting, play on the computer...That about sums it up. Of course, I've been here looking at this monitor ever since 5 o'clock. Eight hours, and now, fifteen minutes later...

I must be getting sleepy; starting to type really slow. I worked some more on my PHP skills tonight. I'm actually improving. I have a page where you can register, change your password, and view all the users, completed. I'll probably implement the actual logging in part tomorrow. I'll be moving on to cookies &amp; sessions. That should be interesting. I've been typing everything up in my Java compiler, just so I can see what's going on. Of course, I can't actually compile it, since it doesn't compile PHP code. I wonder if there are any good PHP compilers out there for free. The practice website/page is coming along quite well, needless to say. So, it might actually be a few days prior to the next milleneum when I get finished completing all I want to do with it. I didn't get to update the website, any, for the simple reason of spending almost now, countless hours extending my knowledge of this wonderful language of PHP. Alright, that's enough useless ranting for tonight. I'm going to bed...
