---
title    : "Thursday, October 21, 2004"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2004-10-21 00:24:00 -5
category : old-posts
era      : college
---

"AM" hours this go round. I wanted to go to bed early tonight, but it didn't happen. I got caught up watching <i> Smallville</i>, doing a little bit of my World Lit. homework, and trying to work out a good schedule for Spring class registration (which, by the way, is Monday). I had a few gaps in the best schedule I could make, given the class times. So, I just tried to widen some of them, so I could put in a couple of hours of work in at the library in between. I just can't believe it's already time to register.  It's only October! So, as of right now, I'll have:

FLGR 1010 (Elementary German I) on MWF at 10:00 - 10:50
BIOL 1010 (A Survey of Life) on TR at 8:00 - 9:15
BIOL 1010 Lab on W at 12:00 - 1:50
COMP 2210 (Fundamentals of Computing II) on TR at 9:30 - 10:45
COMP 2210 Lab on MW at 2:00 - 3:15

I think it's a pretty rough schedule for only 12 hours. I usually can't handle more than a few classes at a time, so I decided to just go ahead and get 12 hours and be done with it. I don't need to register for more classes and then drop out of them in a few weeks. It's pointless. I'm still trying to get my 10 hours of work scheduled in there the best I can. My goal is to be through with classes and work by at least 2 or 3 o'clock every day. And have Friday off, except for my German class. Anyways, it's about that time...Chat with the few people who happen to stumble across this pointless block of memory on the web tomorrow.

<em>Updates</em>...Unfortunately none. Due to my hectic schedule today.
