---
title    : "Sunday, April 11, 2oo4"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2004-04-11 07:48:00 -5
category : old-posts
era      : college
---

Well. Well. Well....I just got through watching "Gothika."  It was alright.  Not quite as good as I thought it would be.  And I also saw "Matrix Revolutions" earlier tonight.  I know.  I know it's kind of late to be seeing it.  But after the "Reloaded" I wasn't sure I ever wanted to see another "Matrix."  Neither the second or third could compare to the first in overall quality.  Plus, I think Keanu Reeves should've ended his career after "Bill & Ted."  Anyways, I just purchased my domain.  I actually had the same one like a year ago.  But I just wasn't ready for a domain then.  Now though, I think I'm up to it.  It has way more features that I can actually make use of now.  It will take time though.  The new Website will just be this one running with new and more stuff.  Or shall I say better stuff.  Anyways, here is the site:  <a href="http://www.dark-autumn.com" title="Home Page"> Dark Autumn</a>.  Right now, I'm just trying to move all my files over, and reorganize them.  I actually didn't realize that I had so many of them.  So that will take some time.  But, hopefully, in a week or so, I'll have it up and running at full speed.  My other sites, <a href="/thesunnydalejournal" title="The Sunnydale Journal" rel="external"> The Sunnydale Journal</a> & <a href="/websitechoiceawards" title="Website Choice Awards" rel="external"> The People's Website Choice Awards</a> will both be hosted there.  And I will also be running my art site there also.  It will be called Cloud Art.  Well...I guess that's enough talk for now.  I have to go work on some more stuff now.  <em> ~greenshady</em>
