---
title    : "Monday, November 8, 2004"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2004-11-08 23:34:00 -5
category : old-posts
era      : college
---

Yet, another day comes to an end. Of course, it's been the same ol' type of Monday that I've always had. Nothing important. Nothing new in the life of Justin Tadlock. I'll have to get up tomorrow morning and read my World Lit. I homework, just like I do every Tuesday. Simply because, I'm the world's biggest procrastinator. It'll be okay. I'm used to it by now. After I got off of work tonight, at 7:00, just like any other Monday night, I spent some time working on PHP & MySQL. I'm still learning. Right now, I'm building a practice page where you can register and login. That's pretty much it. Actually, you can't register, it just looks like you can. I haven't built in the file that handles putting the user info in the database just yet. I'm not that advanced yet. Still learning here. I'm not really sure what I'll do with all this knowledge once it's acquired, but I'll think of something. I do know that I want to, one day, make my own forum, and not use somebody else's premade one. But that's a long way down the road. But, just in case, I do have one of those premade ones: <a href="http://forum.dark-autumn.com" title="Dark Autumn Forum" rel="external"> Dark Autumn Forum</a>. So, go sign up, the new one won't be here until sometime in the next Milleneum.

One thing I am glad that's happening here in Alabama, is that's it's starting to cool down a bit. I actually got to turn on the heater today! Of course, by the time noon hit, the A/C was back on. Though, the heater's back on now, at this late hour. Now, don't get me wrong, the moment the temperature hits below 60, I want my warm air back. It'd be nice if it stayed like 70&ordm; all day long. Now you know I have absolutely nothing to talk about when I start on the weather. So, I'm going to stop on that note...Until I blog again...

<em>Updates</em>...Not much in the way of updates. The No Escape section under Projects is up. Not a whole lot there. But hey, I'm only one man with 24 hours in a day. I think every single page that's being used on this site now has it's .php tag concatenated to it. So the site should be fully-functional. Hopefully, by the end of the week I'll have a new skin up, and maybe some more things to do around here. It's been getting kind of boring. I'm just not ever pleased. Anyways, that's it for the updates...
