---
title    : "Buffy, Angel, Dawson, & Lack of Sleep"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2005-05-20 00:34:00 -5
category : life
tag      : [ 'dvd', 'life', 'music', 'television' ]
era      : college
---

I received my <em> Angel</em> soundtrack, <em> Live Fast, Die Never</em> and my <em> Buffy</em> soundtrack, <em> Once More With Feeling</em>, today.  Both, very good.  Of course, I've heard the <em> Buffy</em> soundtrack like a gazillion times.  The <em> Angel</em> soundtrack is great.  One of my all-time favorite soundtracks now.  Speaking of which, I've almost forgot about <em> Lady Marmalade</em>, performed by Andy Hallet, who plays Lorne on the show.  I'm actually listening to the song now.  It's one of those songs that you're almost embarrassed to tell people that you like, if you're a guy.  It's kind of like a guilty pleasure for me.  Or something of the sort.

Amy, my sister, and I finished up the 5th season of <em> Dawson's Creek</em> on DVD tonight.  I think it was a huge leap going outside of Capeside with the show (by the way, never watched the show on television), but they managed.  I actually liked a lot of themes presented within this season.  A definite step up from the almost lackluster 4th season.  I enjoyed it.  Oh, and don't tell anyone that I watch <em> Dawson's Creek</em>.  It just seems too girlishly girly.  Just kidding, I love it.  It is truly a great show.

Once again, I'm up too late.  Well, I should at least be going to bed at this time to get my proper 6 hours of sleep.  Oh well, I never manage.  One of these days I'm going to really, really balding and growing gray hairs from this whole lack of sleep thing.  My thing is, though, that I hate to sleep.  Well, I don't like the idea of it.  Our lives are short-lived even with the average age at 76 years.  I just started to calculate how many hours an average person would sleep in their lifetime, but I stopped because from the lack of sleep I've had this week my mind is functioning properly.  But, I just don't want to miss out on any of it.  Any of life.  There's so much that needs to be done, and it's all expected to be done when we are at such a young age.  Now's just not the time for relaxing.  It's about moving forward to secure our inevitable old age.  We're expected to know exactly what we want to do with our lives, when, I know that I'm not alone here, most of us have no clue.  The only thing I'm sure of is that I don't want to grow any older, at least without knowing exactly what it is that I'm supposed to do here on out.  When, at the age I'm at, people start losing some of the immortality complex.  And now I'm about to go on a rant, so I'll leave you with a quote to fit the moment from the movie <em> Vanilla Sky</em>.

<em>Words of Wisdom:</em> Isn't that what being young is about, believing secretly that you would be the one person in the history of man that would live forever.   ~David (Tom Cruise, Vanilla Sky)
