---
title    : "Thanksgiving Week Wrap-Up"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2005-11-27 03:24:00 -5
category : [school,writing]
tag      : nanowrimo
era      : college
---

There's so much to say, I don't even know where to get started.  First off, I haven't abandoned you avid readers.  I have been away for a while, which you would know if you do actually read the posts on the site.  I did write a couple of posts in my notepad over the week, and I just transferred them here.  They should be the previous 2 posts for November.

Novel Writing?  How's it going?  Hmmmm.....How do I answer that question?  It's going bad, bad, bad.  Actually, it's more like BAD, BAD, BAD.  I simply cannot find the time, and when I do have the time (like the 3 days I spent lying in bed and on the couch watching TV because I was sick) the universe screws me over.  I did write a chapter (or a partial chapter) and an epilogue this week.  I just haven't had a chance to type them up yet.  Honestly, I don't know if I'll get finished.  Not with the 2 papers I have to write this week.  It's actually 3 papers, but one of them is pretty much done.  See, I did do some work over the break.

Speaking of papers, I spent roughly 4 - 5 hours tonight working on a crappy 3 pages of the 8 - 10 page paper that is due Monday.  I just could not get motivated.  Plus, the paper is on plays that I haven't read in over a month.  That was a lifetime ago.  I can barely remember what I did this morning (I think it was sleep).

So, how was my Thanksgiving?  It was actually quite relaxing, in a way.  I went home on Monday, after our victorious Iron Bowl weekend.  WAR EAGLE!  I couldn't get any work done during the day, because I cleaned that morning, headed home in the afternoon, and spent a little time at my Granny's house that evening.  I did get to work that night though.  The next day, I went to Montgomery (one of the malls, I'm not sure) with Amy Michelle (my stepsister), and we went to a few places.  I just can't remember where exactly.  See, I really can't remember things from a month ago, if I can't remember less than a week ago.  I know we picked up some pictures of her 2 boys while we were out.

Anyways, I don't want to bore you with every detail of each and every day, so I'll try and summarize the rest of it.  <strong>Wednesday:</strong>  Ate dinner with my family (Dad's side) at Amy Michelle's house, got to see my dad and stepmom for the first time since around the first of August (they were in Oregon all this time).  Started feeling a little sick that night.  Went and stayed the night with my mom. <strong>Thursday: </strong> Went to my Granny's to eat Thanksgiving dinner.  Realized that one of my contacts had ripped in half earlier that day or possibly the night before.  Played extreme dodgeball with the family.  Started to feel a little sicker.  Stopped by my dad's house to see my parents.  Decided to head back up to Auburn because I had forgot to pack extra contacts.  <strong> Friday:</strong> Layed in bed most of the day and watched TV.  Felt like Hell had came up and consumed me whole (that was some kind of a metaphor for being sick, give me a break, I'm still not feeling well).

I did actually by <i> Friends:  Season 1</i> on DVD Thursday night.  And I finished the season up on Friday.  I'm telling you, I just did not feel well at all.  I had to put myself in self-motivate mode just to go to work this afternoon, and try to begin something that looks like an essay afterwards.

I just feel tired.  It may be the sickness.  It may be from 4 months of school.  It could possibly be a mixture of the two.  Now that I think about it, I'm quite sure it's a mixture of them.

I'm off to look at a couple of random sites, and then I'm headed to bed.
