---
title    : "A Harsh Realization & 2 More Weeks"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2005-11-29 01:43:00 -5
category : [school,writing]
tag      : nanowrimo
era      : college
---

I have finally come to the harsh realization that I will not be able to finish my novel in the next 2 days for <a href="http://www.nanowrimo.org" title="National Novel Writing Month Website" rel="external"> NaNoWriMo</a>.  I simply have not got the time to finish off the next 25,000 words or so.  I mean, it took me this long to make it halfway there.  Plus, I haven't even typed up the last few things that I've written.  Generally, I would have been typing when I was writing, but I've had to write when I wasn't around a computer just to fit it into my schedule.  Hopefully, but there's not guarantees, I will be able type up the work I have done this weekend and post it up for everyone to read.

I turned in my 8 page paper for Modern Drama today.  Actually, it was about 7 2/3 pages long.  The professor stated clearly that it had to be a full 8 pages.  So, hopefully, he won't mark off for the lack of 1/3 of a page.  But, he seems like the kind of professor who would count each and every individual word if he had assigned a certain word count.  I'm not too worried about it though.  I tried my best.  I stayed up until 4:30 in the morning finishing the thing.  And I just so happened to oversleep my Advanced Composition class this morning because of it.

Well, I only have 2 papers left before finals, and only 3 final exams to take, which won't be too hard.  Usually final exams in literature classes are of the either-you-read-it-or-you-didn't variety.  I have 15 solid pages of my 20 - 25 page paper written for Advanced Composition, so that shouldn't be too hard to wrap up.  Now, I just have an 8 - 10 page paper due in The Gothic on Thursday.  I still have about 30 more pages to read from <i> Dracula</i>, because my teacher went crazy with his reading assigments and I didn't get quite finished when I was supposed to.

Only 2 more weeks left of school.  Wait, that wasn't exciting enough.  ONLY 2 MORE WEEKS!  There, that's better.

Anyways, I need to get to bed because I have to be fresh enough tomorrow to start writing The Gothic paper.
