---
title    : "A Girl & The Godfather"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2005-07-01 00:57:00 -5
category : life
tag      : [ 'dvd', 'life', 'movies' ]
era      : college
---

La...La...La...I'm just happy.  Happy, yet nervous, although tired.  A little bit of everything really.  There's a lot of things running through my head.  Actually, nothing's running through it all literally, but metaphorically.  I have a date.  Yes.  Me. Justin Tadlock with a date. Who'd a thought? Nah, I'm fairly excited about it.  Then comes the nervousness and being scared to death of what I should or shouldn't do.  I'm always like this with the first date or just meeting someone for the first time.  I suppose the girl's interested.  I mean, she's driving a good ways out of her way to come and meet me.  Or maybe she really has nothing better to do that day.  I don't know for sure yet. But, I'm siding with the thought that she's interested in me, at least a tiny bit.  I just figured I'd share this news with my avid readers.

Here's another bit for you.  I added yet another <acronym title="Digital Video Disc"> DVD</acronym> to <a href="/movies"> my collection</a> the other day.  <em> The Godfather</em>.  It's been a while since I've seen it.  Maybe over 10 years.  And I'm sure I didn't understand what was going on in the movie at that young age.  So, it was like watching this wonderful film all over again.  It was a nice treat.  My next movie purchase, I hope, will either be <em> Gone With The Wind</em> or <em> The Godfather Pt. 2</em>.

Anyways, I'm off to watch an episode of <em> Roswell</em>, since that's what I've been doing in my spare time lately.  So, until next time...
