---
title    : "4 Full Pages & A Bible Thumper"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2005-10-20 02:27:00 -5
category : [ 'religion', 'school', 'writing' ]
era      : college
---

I sit here, well past my bedtime and wonder if I should finish off my 5-6 page paper, the one that now stands at a full 4 pages, tonight or wait until I'm a little fresher, by way of a few hours of sleep, tomorrow.  I'll probably wait until tomorrow and give it a quick lookover tonight, before heading to bed.  On top of that, I need to finish 40 or so more pages of my reading of Zadie Smith's <i> White Teeth</i> before 9:30 in the morning for my Contemporary British Lit class.  School.  Hard.  Well, not really hard, just time consuming.  You have to put a lot into it, in order to get a lot out.

I did finish off a few more lines towards my <i> longer project</i> today.  Here they are:
<blockquote class="quote">
The greatest thing in this world is to have a purpose.  A meaning to life.  Most people walk around oblivious to the world around them.  No, not the world you see here, but the deeper part of the world, that part of the world that holds truth.

"Do you wanna go to church with us Sunday?"
"Nope."
"Why don't you ever wanna go to church with us?"
"I just don't want to go to church."  I pause for a moment, looking for the right words.  "Since when did you become a...a Bible thumper anyways?"
"Since I went to church last Wednesday and I realized everything in life is meaningless without God in it?"
Those words would have usually sent a shiver down my spine, awakening millions of tiny hairs on my arms, but I felt nothing.  I was cold.  Empty.
<i>House of Hypocrites.
I will not pray with you.</i>
</blockquote>
Anyways, that's that.  I guess I'm off to finish my reading and maybe look over that paper.  So, until next time...
