---
title    : "Still Finding Style"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2005-05-13 02:01:00 -5
category : updates
tag      : [ 'film', 'wordpress' ]
era      : college
---

Once again, I am updating this ol' site.  I finally caved in and decided to go with <a href="http://www.wordpress.org" title="WordPress"> WordPress</a> as my official sponsor in this little weblog spot here.  It's just easier to manage the blogs.  I almost went back and tried the <a href="http://www.phpnuke.org" title="PHP Nuke"> PHP Nuke Web Portal</a> again.  I think I want to come up with my own web portal.  Well...one that suits me better.  I actually enjoy drudging through code for countless hours sometimes.  It gives me something to do.  Going to a content management system may just not work as well.  But, I may need it when I launch, if I ever do launch it, my <em> Internet Television Network</em>.

Speaking of which, I plan on doing some day.  I would like to play a full season of <a href="/projects/films/a-day-in-the-life" title="A Day In The Life"> A Day In The Life</a> come this fall.  And I would also like to have another series up and running.  It's going to take lots of work and time spent that's not here playing with the blog-spot.

I hope you enjoy the changes in the site.  There's going to be lots of great updates in the future, so keep checking back and reading this little area.

<em>Words of Wisdom:</em> At one point in my life I had thought that there were limits on the universe.  Limits on possibilities.  There couldn't be any way that just plain ol' anything could happen.  Well, there came a day when that changed.  That day was the day John May said Pacey Whitter had mad game...
