---
title    : "Days 3, 4, 5 - First Week Almost Over"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2005-07-16 02:02:00 -5
category : general
era      : college
---

5 days! That's a pretty big milestone when starting a workout and nutrition regimen, especially the working out part. I've almost gotten over the worst of the soreness and feeling like crap.  But, with any good workout plan you're going to hate life in the first week.

On day 3 I completed my first lower body workout.
On day 4 I continued with the cardio and abs.
Today, day 5, I finished up my second upper body workout.

That's it in a nutshell.  I plan on posting as much as I can on my progress with the Body-For-Life challenge, but I get lazy with updating sometimes.  Plus, as of right now, I haven't quite figured out how I want to outline, manage, and design the <a href="http://www.dark-autumn.com/bodyforlife/index.php"> Body For Life</a> part of the site.  I may branch it off into its own subdomain or something else.  I don't really want to give it a subdomain yet, but I want to keep it updated as I go through the competition.

Hopefully, I'll have a good idea of what I want to do with it for the time being fairly soon.

I also spent a good bit of my paycheck today on progressing myself in the competition.  I got paid $100 and spent $85 towards the Body-For-Life competition.  Now, it's not all directly towards it, but that's one way to look at it.  Sixty-five dollars went straight to groceries.  Although I was in dire need of restocking the cabinets with food, I spent this money on good nutritious food that I need to be eating.  The next $20 was paid for a pair of 15 lb. dumbells to aid me in my upper body training.  So, the money all went to something useful, all the while assisting me with my future <i> Body-For-Life</i>.
