---
title    : "30,000 Hits, Wordpress, & The Historian"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2005-12-08 02:47:00 -5
category : [school,updates]
era      : college
---

I have made it up to <b> 30,318 hits</b> at this point in my site's life.  That's a pretty big milestone.  Well, I was actually going to post a big <b> 25,000 HITS</b> banner across when  I reached that point, but I realized I had already passed it a few thousand later.  So, I'm here, announcing the passing of 30,000.  Good enough.

I found one article at <a href="http://www.wordpress.org" title="Wordpress Website" rel="external"> Wordpress.org</a> about using a file called <code> wp.php</code> for a basic template.  And, after looking at the file (one I didn't even know existed) I figured out a good way to integrate it into my front page.  It seems to run a little faster than including the <code> index.php</code> file.  I'm not sure why that is, but I'm happy for the moment.  Of course, my site could be taking a late-night break from torturing me, and letting everything run smoothly.  Only time will tell.

I have been sitting up most of the night reading <i> The Historian</i> by Elisabeth Kostova.  I'm 130 pages into it so far.  Only 512 pages left to go!!!  And only until Friday at 5:00 pm to read it!!!  At the rate I'm reading this book (this includes marking notes and highlighting) it will take me another 17 hours of reading to finish it, and only, this is an approximate guess, 38 hours left before that time comes for my final.  If only I didn't have to work tomorrow, though it will only take up 4 -5 hours of my time, depending on how much work I have to do.  It started out kind of an <i> almost-boring</i> read, but there have been a few revelations that have peaked my interest at this point.  I found myself not wanting to put the book down to come type up this little entry on the site and go to bed.  Hopefully, it will pick up even more as I finish the novel.
