---
title    : "The Gazillionth Site Reconstruction"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2005-10-20 23:28:00 -5
category : [ 'school', 'updates' ]
era      : college
---

I'm almost finished for the week.  Just one more day to go, and I will have the luxury of playing with this website for an entire weekend.  I just have 2 more pages to write on my Ethnography of Literacy for my Advanced Composition class.  Two more pages!  Yeah, like you're getting excited about that.  Well, I am.  You can view my progress at the <a href="http://literacy.dark-autumn.com" rel="external"> Literacy Project</a> subdomain.

I've been working on the site for the last couple of days.  I finally found a good script for switching designs at <a href="http://dev.d10e.net/nb/2005/06/17/style-switching" rel="external">nb</a>.  It's a very useful article.  I'll probably give some type of tutorial on it myself sometime or another.  Like that'll ever happen.  Maybe one day.

The reason I'm doing this is to make the website load faster.  My old version of style switching from <a href="http://domesticat.net" rel="external"> Domesticat</a> just wasn't working.  It slowed down load times.  This new way is much simpler.

Since I've been reconstructing the structure of the website, there have been a few short-term drawbacks.  I haven't had the time go in and replace all the code on each page with the new code, so some of the pages may not work properly.  I've tried to get all of the main pages fixed, because those are the ones most likely to be viewed.  Pretty much every link on the menu should be working fine.

Anyways, that's all the news for today.  I'm off to finish off my paper.

Ooops!  Edit!  I almost forgot, once again, to talk about Spring 2006 Registration and how it went for me.  Here's the classes I'm registered for so far:

- <strong>ENGL 4540:</strong> CONTEMPORARY AMERICAN LITERATURE (3) MWF 9:00 - 9:50
- <strong>FLGR 1020:</strong> ELEMENTARY GERMAN II (4) MWF 10:00 - 10:50
- <strong>ENGL 4180:</strong> RHETORICAL THEORY AND PRACTICE (3) TR 11:00 - 12: 15
- <strong>JRNL 1100:</strong> NEWSPAPER FUNDAMENTALS (3) TR 12:30 - 1:45

<strong>13 hours</strong>

Yes, getting on the waiting list for Contemporary American Lit really payed off.  How cool is it that I'll get to watch movies all semester for a class!  Okay, I think the word cool may be out nowadays.  What's the new slang?  I'm out of touch with the times.  Maybe <i> cool</i> is a word I can still use, because it's part of my generation's slang.  I'm still hoping for one more class to open up, since I only have 13 hours so far.  I need to have at least 15.  I'm on 4 more waiting lists (The Personal Essay, Fiction Writing I, Biotechnology, and Southern Literature).  Surely, something else will open up and I won't have to take that dreaded Ethics class I've been avoiding since I came to school, and only because all of the teachers have low ratings at <a href="http://www.ratemyprofessor.com" rel="external"> Rate My Professor [dot] Com</a>.

Okay, I'm seriously off to finish my paper now.
