---
title    : "Sick & Site Update"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2005-10-25 01:35:00 -5
category : [ 'general', 'updates' ]
era      : college
---

I'm about to go to bed.  My body can hardly handle staying up this late.  Yes, I am sick.  I couldn't even do yardwork this afternoon.  I barely made it through 100 or so pages of Zadie Smith's <i> White Teeth</i> and 55 pages (only 90 more to go before class tomorrow) of Bram Stoker's <i> Dracula</i>.  I'm in desperate need of a break from school.  But, that's another four weeks away (Thanksgiving Break).  And even then, I'll have 3 papers due the following week.  So it won't be anything like a break.  I did get my Advanced Composition paper back today.  I made an A.  That's 2 A's for the class now.

I continued placing the proper code on each page today.  Everything should be up and running fine.  One thing that I want to do, but it may be a while before I get around to it, is making the forum fluid with the rest of the site (same theme/design); but it will take a good while to do.  Especially with the CSS.  I may eventually do away with it altogether, and just make the blog and its comments a more integral part of the design.  I don't know yet, but I guess I'll figure out something.  I had been looking for a way to make the "users" for the blog the same as the "users" for the forum, but all the information on the subject didn't look too promising.  Wordpress needs to come up with its own forum to incorporate into its design, if they haven't already.  I don't think they have, but I'll check up on it sometime or another.

Anyways, I'm off to bed.  It's time for me to stop this useless blog for this useless little corner on the web.
