---
title    : "I Used To Be Funny"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2005-10-07 01:09:00 -5
category : general
era      : college
---

Well...I'm up much later than I need to be.  I could've gotten in bed at 11:00.  But, Nooo; I had to stay up and diddle-daddle around.  Now, I'm stuck with a good 40 pages to read from <i> Writing Ethnographic Fieldnotes</i> for my Advanced Composition class.

One thing I've been thinking about lately is my writing here in this little blog area.  I just seemed to have lost my touch.  I used to think I had this kind of witty humor that made my oh-so-avid readers laugh out loud in their dark room at two in the morning.  But, I don't know.  I think I've lost something along the way.  I write here, too often (yet not quite enough), about nothing.  Maybe I write about something.  But it's terribly boring.  And it drives me quite mad, sometimes, looking at the words spread across the computer screen.  I need to get my laughter-arousing side back.  To tell you the truth, I think it's the lack of sleep I get.  Back when I was really funny I'd be up&#8212;Somewhere between the hours of 4:00 to 7:00 in the morning&#8212;typing away, deliriously I might add, about useless things in my useless world.  However, I had sleep.  I just done most of it during the late morning hours or the early evening hours.  I was never as tired as I am now, because my body knew that it would eventually get its sufficient amount of sleep.  Now, it knows nothing of the sort.

Oh...

The good ol' days.  The times when I could just blabber on about nothing.  The times when I could pop out a quick rhyme and post it for my buddy Skip to see.

I had something to say then...
