---
title    : "A Whore Girl & The Godfather Pt. 3"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2005-07-12 00:14:00 -5
category : life
tag      : [ 'dvd', 'life', 'movies' ]
era      : college
---

Yes, I used the word WHORE. I think I'm actually entitled to use it.  This girl, the girl from previous posts whom I had a date with, is a whore.  At least from friends, whose names will not be disclosed and who have also let me in on some unsettling knowledge, I have come to deduce this theory and make use of the centuries old practice  of name-calling.  Basically, I saw a short video of her doing something that girls should just not be doing.  And that's probably saying too much, in trying to keep with the friend disclosure.  I have went through various emotions within the past week-and-a-half with this girl, bouncing around all points of the spectrum.  Happy, nervous, bored, pissed, and disgusted all definitely fit in this roller-coaster ride through spontaneous mental states.  Once again, I'm happy.  I'm back to just ME.  I have enough on my plate to try and add a female in with the bread and potatoes.

I just completed my <em> Godfather Collection</em>, adding <em> The Godfather Part III</em> to my <a href="/movies"> DVD collection</a>.  Not as good as the <em> Part I</em> and <em> Part II</em>, but a great movie nonetheless.  Al Pacino, once again, plays the part to perfection.  Sofia Coppola wasn't as good as I thought she'd be, but she was still learning the ropes of acting at the time.  Great film!  One that should definitely be in your <acronym title="Digital Video Disc"> DVD</acronym> collection.

On a side note I just found out that <em> Alias: Season 4</em> will be coming out on October 25, 2005.

I'm now going to bed.
