---
title    : "Justin Time & A Lot Of Site Stuff"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2005-12-14 02:23:00 -5
category : updates
era      : college
---

Yes, I need to be in bed now.  But, I just want to stay up late, sleep late, and eat frozen pizzas.  The good life, you know.  Unfortunately, I have to do this thing called <i> work</i>.  Ughhh.  I have to be at Mrs. Crowder's house at 10:00 in the morning, not too late I know.  It was my last day of finals though.  It should be cause for celebration.  Of course, I hardly celebrate anything anymore.  I think I'm becoming one of those <i> anti</i> people.  The ones who are anti-everything.  There's just so much I want to get done every day that there's not enough time to do it in, so I'm stuck being anti.  And, of course, I need my Justin time.  I barely find time for that.  Ah, who am I kidding?  All the time is Justin time.

Now, I'm just beginning to ramble about trivial things.  Justin time?

I have to post something about the website itself.  You saw this coming didn't ya'?  Didn't ya'?  I have almost updated all of the <i> paths</i> that I talked about yesterday.  I also wrote a <a href="/webdesign/counter" title="Hit Counter Tutorial"> tutorial on the hit counter</a> that you can see at the bottom of my site.  I can't remember where I found the code (it's been so long ago, 30,000 hits and counting), so I just wrote out the tutorial myself.  It's pretty simple, and there are far more powerful scripts out there than this one, but I figured I'd offer it anyway.  It has worked well for me, and I don't want much more out of a hit counter.

I'm just happy the site is loading fast.  I haven't had any trouble with it since I fixed the paths and tweaked a few other bits of code.  Well, I did have a problem with the skins today.  I had to go back and delete the cookie for this site because I got stuck on the <a href="/skins/style.php?set=17" title="Dark Stream Skin"> Dark Stream Skin</a> today and couldn't change.  I don't know what that's about.  But, it's been working right ever since I deleted that cookie.  You, reader, would probably do well to delete any cookies you have for this site, unless you haven't had any problems with it.

I'm going to start going through all of the old <a href="/skins" title="View All Designs">  designs</a> sometime this week and fixing them.  That way, visitors will have a wide variety of choices for their theme when viewing the site.  It's just going to take a while to do them all.  I have 18 themes in all.  Plus, I want to go back and redo all of my original layouts from when I was on <a href="http://geocities.yahoo.com" title="Yahoo Geocities Website" rel="external"> Geocities</a>.  I still have all of the images and HTML (yes, HTML) files saved.  I do have a couple of layouts from when I first began at <a href="http://www.expage.com" title="Expage Website" rel="external"> Expage</a>.  I'm just missing my very first, original design, I think.  It would be great to go back and redo all of these in their orinal look and offer them as themes also, even if they aren't all that great.  It would be a great way to show how far I've come in 3 years (this spring) in webdesign.

I guess that's it.  Kind of a long post, at least as far as they've come lately.  I'm off to...well, you know the drill.
