---
title    : "Christmas Presents & Code"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2005-12-17 02:36:00 -5
category : [general, updates]
era      : college
---

<i>GO TO BED, JUSTIN!!!  GRRR!!!</i>

Why can't I do it?  I don't know.  Every night.  Every night, I stay up late.  At least I don't have to work until 10:00 tomorrow, or rather today (as I find myself saying alot with these late night blogs).

I didn't really do much today.  I played <i> NCAA College Football 2005</i> for a while on my Gamecube.  That was after I got off of work.  Which, by the way, Mrs. Canon didn't even leave me a check.  Now, I'm stuck without that extra $30 of spending money.  That's probably a good thing.

I spent nearly $60 in Wal-Mart today.  Although, $30 of it went to Christmas gifts.  I got my sister (Amy Nicole) the <i> Titanic: 3 Disc Special Collector's Edition</i>, and I bought Tim 2 movies because they had a good 2-pack deal for ten bucks.  I won't mention the movie titles because Tim sometimes checks out the site, and he might find out what I got him.  Then the rest of my money went to groceries and a Ranch BLT from the McDonald's there.

I did fix one <a href="/skins" title="View All Skins"> Skin</a> today.   It is the <a href="/skins/style.php?set=11" title="Alyson Michalka 2 Skin">Alyson Michalka 2 Skin</a>.  I only have 10 more to go!  Actually, if I go back and redo all of my originals from when I was on Geocities and Expage, then I have much more to do.  But, that's a whole other project.

I have had one problem in coding the website.  It's not overly major, but it's really bugging me.  In <a href="http://www.opera.com" title="Opera Website" rel="external"> Opera</a>, there is a huge space between my <code> bodyContainer</code> div and the bottom of the page.  My <code> bodyContainer</code> is the overall container that holds everything within the page.  I simply cannot find a solution to this problem.  All of my code validates, which doesn't mean much with the differences in browsers sometimes.  I looked on the internet for an hour-and-a-half tonight (and have looked for hours before) for a workable solution.   So, if you have a solution, please, by all means, <a href="/domain/contact.php" title="Contact Form"> Contact Me</a>.

One other problem, that I may run into in the future and have run into in the recent past, is my menu.  The major problem here is that I might want to change the categories in the menu (ie: Navigation, Domain, Select A Design).  Or I may want to add more categories.  That means I would have to go into all of my CSS files and change the code for all of them.  Right now, I'm up to 18 styles (skins/themes).  That would be a lot of coding.  I going to have to find a solution to this.

I have a few ideas in mind, but they also limit having different "looks" on each list.  I thought about giving them all a single class, but that would definitely limit me in some ways.  My other solution was to just go through and set up each menu with five generic menu ids and classes.  That way, I would allow for enough room for 5 different lists at any given time.  I don't think I would ever go past that amount.

I don't like to have a cluttered menu system.  I think it takes away from the layout.  I like simplicity.  I don't know what I'm going to do right now.  I'll have to figure it out sometime soon though, since I'm reconstructing all of the css files.

Anyways, I'm off to dream of coding.  That's all I've been doing lately.
