---
title    : "Essay #2 Complete"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2005-11-03 03:29:00 -5
category : school
era      : college
---

What a long night.  A long day, in fact.  I finished up my Contemporary British Lit paper at around 12:00 am.  I had it all, mostly, written last night. I just needed to cover all my mistakes in sentence structure, you know, make it look <i> purty</i> and all.  I feel really good about this paper.  I haven't felt this good about a literature paper in a while, and that can be either a good thing or a bad thing.  Typically, when I over-worry about a paper, I come to find that I done alright on it, and when I feel good about a paper I end up being disappointed.  So, I won't get my hopes up.  But, it's hard, you know, when you work so hard on something and feel good about it, you want to have high hopes.  If you feel good about the work you produce, then nothing else matters.  Right?  I would like to think so.  Because, first and foremost, an artist's (if I can use the term artist here) work should please the artist.  He is obviously putting his work forth for the world to see, but it has to mean something to him.  And, I'm going to stop there, before this thing becomes a full-blown rant with, literally, no meaning at all behind it.  The essay is done, and that's that.  It is, however, my last paper in the class, and I want it to be good enough to bring my average up, at least, close to an A.  God knows, I could use a little sunshine in my life.  Maybe not too much sunshine though.  I am the tortured writer.  That's what I'm supposed to be anyway.  I don't need to be too happy, it my deter me in my work.

I thoroughly enjoyed the prologue and the first 3 chapters of Stephen King's <i> Salem's Lot</i>, which I had to read for the Gothic.  This is the first time in a while that I've actually finished the reading for that class the night before.  Usually, I'm capping it off between classes the day the reading is due.  Maybe I can keep up this trend.  Not likely, but I'll try.  I still have about 30 pages or so left of Ian McEwan's <i> Atonement</i> left for Contemporary British Lit left.  I guess I'll have to catch up tomorrow.

Yes, it has been a long day.  I had to go to school from 9:00 - 12:00, work from 12:00 - 3:00, then I came home, got something to eat and napped until 6:45.  Of course, I had the pleasure of watching <i> One Tree Hill</i>, minus <i> Lost</i> tonight since it was a rerun.  Since then I've been working diligently at homework and paper-writing.

It's now...well past my bedtime.  Of course it's well past my bedtime.  Isn't it always?  I would like to write on my novel tonight (or this morning, however you put it), but I must get my nourishing 5 hours of sleep before heading off into the great monotony of another day in Justin Tadlock's life.
