---
title    : "Einstein, Yardwork, & ALLTEL"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2005-07-18 00:23:00 -5
category : life
tag      : [ 'life', 'work' ]
era      : college
---

I came upon a nice little set of quotes on a <a href="http://www.carichner.com"> website</a> that I came across today.

<blockquote class="quote">
"If A is success in life, then A equals x plus y plus z. Work is x; y is play; and z is keeping your mouth shut."

"A man's ethical behavior should be based effectually on sympathy, education, and social ties; no religious basis is necessary. Man would indeed be in a poor way if he had to be restrained by fear of punishment and hope of reward after death."

"I know not with what weapons World War III will be fought, but World War IV will be fought with sticks and stones."

~Albert Einstein (1879 - 1955)
</blockquote>

Just a few things to think about.

I guess I'm going to have to head off to work (yardwork) tomorrow.  It looks like the rain isn't going to get here until noon or later.  We're going to have PM showers at least.  I need the money, but I just don't feel much like doing the work, especially knowing that I'll have to come home and do a upper body workout afterwards.

Another job opportunity came up today.  A friend of mine, Jonathan Jordan, is dating a girl who's dad is opening up an ALLTEL store here in Auburn, Alabama.  Her brother is coming to school here next year.  Anyways, I talked to the dad over the phone, and he told me to stop by on Thursday for an interview.  If I get the job, or if I take it, I'll have to give up some Saturdays.  Which isn't that big of a deal, I'm just used to sleeping in, since it's usually my only day off for the week.  I'll probably keep my job at the library, and just put in two or three shifts a week, because I can put together my own schedule there.  I won't know any more on this until Thursday, so I'll keep updated on it.  The odd thing, if I got the job, would be that I have a phone through Cingular, and I'll be selling ALLTEL cell phones.

Alright, it's about that time.  I'm headed off to bed.
