---
title    : "Ethnography, The Gatekeepers, & Creek Hill"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2005-11-27 02:59:00 -5
category : [books,school,writing]
tag      : nanowrimo
era      : college
---

Another day gone by.  Another late night.  It's definitely time for me to go to bed.  I worked on my ethnography project for a couple of hours tonight, and I was completely ticked off by something I had forgotten to do.  I had saved my work on the Peavy family online while I was at school and forgot to save it on my laptop when I got home.  So, now I'm stuck down here (in Nowhere, Alabama) without a copy of my previous work.  And there was no way I was about to rewrite it from scratch.  Tomorrow, I'll be going to Kerry's to email my work so far to my group members.  Hopefully, I'll have time to add that and write a little to go along with it to add to my work I done tonight.  Oh well, the thing will get done sometime or another.

I made it to page 173 of <i> The Gatekeepers</i> tonight, also.  It has still been a fairly good read, and I hope to finish it within the next day or so.  I have also come across some more shocking aspects of a premier college's admissions process.

On another note, I wrote about 5 hand-written pages of my novel, <i> Creek Hill</i>.  It has been such a slow process.  I'm now really beginning to question whether or not finishing this in another week is feasible.  I'm going to try.  If I don't finish it by then, I won't completely abandon the project.  I have too much involved in it to let it go to waste now.  There's so much story left to be told.

Anyways, I'm off to bed.
