---
title    : "Book Wish List & Boring School Post"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2005-10-18 01:06:00 -5
category : [ 'books', 'school' ]
era      : college
---

Yet another day comes to an end.  And what do I have to show for it?  Not much.  I did put together this nifty little <a href="http://dark-autumn.com/people/justin_tadlock/articles/BookWishList.php"> Book Wish List</a> for anyone who's interested in helping me out in the way of purchasing one or some of these for me.  I want this to be my <em> Winter Break Reading Project</em>.  Usually I don't do a <em> Winter Break Reading Project</em>, but I feel that I need to catch up since I didn't do my usual <em> Summer Reading Project</em>.  Plus, I'm doing a whole lot more reading these days.  It's actually starting to become a new obsession, almost as bad as my DVD obsession.  It should be too, considering I'm an English major.

Okay, on to the juicy stuff...

Just kidding! No juicy stuff today, nor any other day.  I suppose I'm too bland to hold a decent blog, but that's just me.

I do have to register for classes tomorrow.  Here's some of the courses that I may be taking in the spring of 2006:

- ENGL 2140: UNDERSTANDING FICTION
- ENGL 4010: THE PERSONAL ESSAY
- ENGL 4180: RHETORICAL THEORY AND PRACTICE
- ENGL 4200: THE CRAFT OF NARRATIVE
- ENGL 4540: CONTEMPORARY AMERICAN LITERATURE
- ENGL 4570: SOUTHERN LITERATURE
- ENGL 4700: THE SHORT STORY
- ENGL 5030: BIOTECHNOLOGY
- FLGR 1020: ELEMENTARY GERMAN II
- JRNL 1100: NEWSPAPER FUNDAMENTALS

Those are the courses I have to choose from.  Two of the classes I wanted to take the most are already full, but I'm on the waiting list: The Craft of Narrative (Fiction Writing I) and Contemporary American Literature.  My next choices are The Personal Essay, Southern Literature, and Rhetorical Theory & Practice. And I have to go ahead and get into Newspaper Fundamentals to start on my supporting coursework.  Plus, I'll probably need to finish my Foreign Language requirements with Elementary German II.  So, here's hoping that I get into the classes I want tomorrow morning, bright and early, at 7:00.

Well, that's way too much to post about school.  But, that's what's been on my mind.  I have a paper due Thursday and one on Friday, and I've been worried about class registration on top of that.  And that's my cue, time for bed.

Seven o'clock.  Bright 'n early.
