---
title    : "Monotony, Deathbed, & The Flow Of Writing"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2005-10-13 00:03:04 -5
category : [ 'school', 'writing' ]
era      : college
---

Once again, another same-ol'-run-of-the-mill-montonous-average-day for Justin Tadlock.  Good news?  Last day of work at the library this week!  Now, if that ain't exciting I don't know what is.
 Okay, so I went through my usual Wednesday routine:

- <strong>7:30</strong> - Crawl out of bed.
- <strong>8:30</strong> - Leave for school.
- <strong>9:00</strong> - Advanced Composition class.
- <strong>10:00</strong> - Wandered around the Haley Center Bookstore, fussed about waiting for a book (<i>Before Writing</i>) which hasn't came in yet, until I finally made it up to the 3rd floor to wait for my next class.
- <strong>11:00</strong> - Modern Drama, in which I almost fell asleep several times (because of my usual lack of sleep), until I started writing on an idea I've been playing with in my head for a while.
- <strong>12:00</strong> - Worked at the library.
- <strong>3:00 </strong>- Got off of work.  Stopped and got a cheeseburger from the convenient store down the road from my house.  Got home and stared at the computer screen for a while.
- <strong>4:30</strong> - Took a 2-hour nap.
- <strong>7:00</strong> - Watched <i> One Tree Hill</i>.
- <strong>8:00</strong> - Watched <i> Lost</i>.
- <strong>9:00</strong> - Been doing homework until now.

So, I did get something more exciting than finishing up my last day of work at the library this week done today.  I almost managed a whole page of work, although it was dreary-eyed and just-to-hold-my-head-up kind of writing.  But here it is, I haven't even read over it until now:
<blockquote class="quote">
I stared to the side, just at the foot of the bed, the one with white-sheeted covers.  I didn't want to say that I felt nothing, but something was missing.  Looking back I know that there was something there.  NOTHING.  Asleep.  Damn doctors keep you alive only to sleep for a few more days.

Heart montiors (the beeps still steadily beeping),  IV tubes, a chair or two, the pink water picture, all the settings of that little room welcomed <i> Life and Death</i>.  Maybe one moreso than the other.  That night it was ready for death.  God's hand was stretching down from the heavens to rip away <i> His</i> rightful soul.  Nevertheless what the family felt or wanted, it was <i> His</i> decision.

Words were not as easy to find as those I had rehearsed while showering the night before, each bead of water giving a syllable to the final parting words.  It was this <i> last goodbye</i> that had only been, one year earlier, rehearsed before.</blockquote>
I know.  I know.  It's not at all polished, but it's a start.  It's words on paper, or now a computer screen.  It's not even a tittle compared to the envisioned final work, one in which I don't plan to run through at the moment.  But it's words on paper.

Thinking about words on paper, I sat down for a while tonight and scratched out 3 1/2 pages on my Report from the Field paper for Advanced Composition.  I just sat down and started writing; and tonight, the writing process was flowing.  I didn't want to stop writing, but I had to in order to get to my readings I need to have done for tomorrow (or should I say today, now).  I did realize, however, that my notes are all over the place.  I've lost all structure in my Ethnography of Literacy.  That's one thing I'll be doing in the next week: organizing everything.  That way, I'll have some stuff to post up on the <a href="http://literacy.dark-autumn.com"> Literacy Website</a>.

Anyways, I'm off to bed for another one of those same-ol'-run-of-the-mill-montonous-average-days.
