---
title    : "iPod & Dreams of a 1000 Song Playlist"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2005-05-21 02:58:00 -5
category : life
tag      : [ 'life', 'music' ]
era      : college
---

I've been researching up on the <em> Apple iPod Mini</em> tonight.  These things just seem neat.  I've owned an mp3 player for a few years and never really used it.  It just used up its batteries in like 5 hours and was a little bulky for my tastes.  I had got it as a Christmas gift.  So, I think that I'm going to buy the 4gb iPod mini.  It's fairly practical, and probably holds more songs than I'll ever put on there.  Well, I guess I'd eventually fill it up.  I can't believe I'm already putting my 30-inch <acronym title="High Definition Television"> HDTV</acronym> on the backburner.  I figured it'd be the end of the summer before I ever got it anyway.  I'm not in that much of a rush.  I know I'll get it sometime or another.

I purchased my first song on iTunes tonight also.  I went ahead and got <em> Fuck It (I Don't Want You Back)</em> by Eamon.  I love that song, even if it's a little played out now.  I'm not on the cutting-edge of music right now.  I'm not really sure what's good.  I don't listen to the radio that much.  I usually just pop in an old <acronym title="Compact Disc"> CD</acronym> and just play that.  Or I just listen to whatever a friend's playing.  I'm starting to build my music library though, of course, in preparation for my iPod mini.  I went ahead and ripped my <em> Buffy: Once More With Feeling Soundtrack</em>, <em> Angel: Live Fast, Die Never</em>, and <em> The Daywalker Mix</em> that I got with <em> Blade Trinity</em> to my music library also.  I put a few other songs that I had on some other <acronym title="Compact Discs"> CDs</acronym> in the library, nothing worth mentioning.

Anyways, I'm dreaming of my iPod mini...

<em>Words of Wisdom:</em>
Fuck what I said it dont mean shit now
Fuck the presents might as well throw em out
Fuck all those kisses they didn't mean jack
Fuck you, you hoe, I dont want you back
~Eamon
