---
title    : "Day 1 - Body For Life"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2005-07-11 23:49:00 -5
category : general
era      : college
---

I have finally got up the intestinal fortitude to enter the grueling <a href="http://www.bodyforlife.com" rel="external"> Body-For-Life Challenge</a>.    Yesterday I shot a video of myself to take a quick look at my body before I started the challenge.  I put it in high quality and low quality:
<a href="http://www.dark-autumn.com/bodyforlife/videos/BeforeBodyForLife000.wmv">Before Body For Life Video</a> (high quality, 80.5 mb, 7:28)
<a href="http://www.dark-autumn.com/bodyforlife/videos/BeforeBodyForLife001.wmv">Before Body For Life Video</a> (medium quality, 16.8 mb, 7:28)

I also took some screencaps of the video to have a few pictures of myself:
<a href="http://www.dark-autumn.com/bodyforlife/journal/1/photo_gallery/">Before Body For Life Photo Gallery</a>

Today, I put together my Upper Body Workout.  Here is the link:
<a href="http://www.dark-autumn.com/bodyforlife/workout/upper_body.php">Upper Body Workout</a> (version 1)

I'm still working on putting the Lower Body Workout and the Cardio Workout together.  I should at least have the cardio done by tomorrow, since that's when I start it.

Now on to today's business.  It was rough, with a capital ROU.   That just doesn't work right, right there.  It's a single syllable word.  Anyways, I only completed 34% of my total upper body workout.  34%!!!  That's still a good workout though.  Especially, seeing as how my upper body workout consists of 1200 repetitions, of which I completed 408.

My meals didn't turn out so well either.  But, I'll have to wait until Friday to get paid in order to buy proper food.  So I'll be improvising this week.

Other than the 34% completed workout and the scraps-for-food, everything else went great.  Wait a minute, there's nothing else!  I didn't get a video shot, because I was too tired.  Although, I won't be shooting a video every day for 84 days anyway.  Hopefully, I'll be able to get at least one up every week.

Now, I may feel like crap in the morning.  No, I WILL feel like crap in the morning.  Can't wait til' the lower body workout starts!

<b>Day 1 Statistics</b>

<b>Meals</b><br />
<em>Meal 1:</em> 9:00 am
<ul>
<li>Banana</li>
<li>Mayonnaise (reg)</li>
<li>Hamburger Bun</li>
<li>Low Fat Milk</li>
<li>Diet Dr. Thunder</li>
</ul>
<em>Meal 2:</em> 1:30 pm
<ul>
<li>2 Slices Of Pineapple</li>
<li>Diet Dr. Thunder</li>
</ul>
<em>Meal 3:</em> 4:00 pm
<ul>
<li>Blueberry Low Fat Fruit & Grain Bar</li>
<li>Water</li>
</ul>
<em>Meal 4:</em> 8:30 pm
<ul>
<li>4 Eggs Scrambled</li>
<li>2 Waffles</li>
<li>Syrup</li>
<li>Butter</li>
<li>Diet Dr. Thunder</li>
</ul>
<em>Meal 5:</em> 0:00
<ul>
<li>Nothing</li>
</ul>
<em>Meal 6:</em> 0:00
<ul>
<li>Nothing</li>
</ul>

<em>Total Meals:</em> 66.67% (4 / 6)
<em>Total Glasses Of Water:</em> 10% (1 / 10)

<b>Workout (Version 1)</b><br />
<em>Chest:</em> 33.33% (60 / 180)
<ul>
<li>Pushups - Reps: 12, 10, 8, 6, 12, 12</li>
<li>Close-Grip Pushups - Reps: 0</li>
<li>Wide-Grip Pushups - Reps: 0</li>
</ul>

<em>Shoulders:</em> 24% (72 / 300)
<ul>
<li>Shoulder Press (20 lbs) - Reps: 12, 10, 8, 6, 12, 12</li>
<li>Shoulder Shrugs (20 lbs) - Reps: 12, 10, 8, 6, 12, 12</li>
<li>Rear Deltoids - Reps: 0</li>
<li>Lateral Raises - Reps: 0</li>
<li>Front Lateral Raises (20 lbs) - Reps: 12</li>
</ul>

<em>Back:</em> 50% (60 / 120)
<ul>
<li>One Arm Rows (20-25 lbs) - Reps: 12, 10, 8, 6, 12, 12</li>
<li>Back Crunch - Reps: 0</li>
</ul>

<em>Triceps:</em> 20% (36 / 180)
<ul>
<li>Dips - Reps: 12, 10, 8, 6</li>
<li>Dumbell Shoulder Press - Reps: 0</li>
<li>Lying Triceps Extension - Reps: 0</li>
</ul>

<em>Biceps:</em> 60% (72 / 120)
<ul>
<li>Dumbell Curls (20-25 lbs) - Reps: 12, 10, 8, 6</li>
<li>Dumbell Hammer Curls (20 lbs) - Reps: 12, 10, 8, 6</li>
</ul>

<em>Total Upper Body Workout Completed:</em> 33.33% (300 / 900)

<em>Abs:</em> 16% (48 / 300)
<ul>
<li>Arm Leg Lift - Reps: 12</li>
<li>Single Leg Raise - Reps: 0</li>
<li>Leg Raises - Reps: 12</li>
<li>Floor Crunches - Reps: 12</li>
<li>One-Fourth Crunches - Reps: 12</li>
</ul>
