---
title    : "Been There, Done That & Trailer Trash"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2005-10-17 01:25:00 -5
category : [ 'life', 'writing' ]
tag      : [ 'life', 'writing' ]
era      : college
---

Yep, I went to Six Flags this weekend!  I guess I owe that a Blah Blah, Woof Woof!  Okay, I won't start doing that every other line or so.  Well, I don't know, I may make it my new slogan: BLAH BLAH, WOOF WOOF! I guess it really doesn't fit in with the Dark Autumn theme though.  If I even have a theme.  Oh well.  Anyways, Six Flags was fun. However, it did have that <em> been there, done that</em> sort of feel.  I've only been there once though, way back in 2002.  Yeah, way back in the day, like it was a lifetime ago.  But, it was a lifetime ago.  I've been through so much since then.  Even I look back and go, "When did I do all this stuff?" I can't even remember a time when I had the time to do all this stuff.  (All this stuff is referring to all the things that have happened in 3 years)  It's been a long road.  A very long road.

I was looking through some old pictures, incomplete scrapbooks, and high school (and the few elementary I still own) love letters Friday night.  Life seems to short.  There's so many memories just in those few albums and old boxes.  But, I don't want to get into it.  I did see my 2002 Six Flags' pictures though; and that's a whole other story too.  I could write for hours tonight on old memories and old flames until my hands went numb from the tapping of keys, probably up until the wee hours of the morning.  Unless I consider right now the wee hours of the morning, then I'd be typing until daybreak.  I don't know what hour is actually considered the wee hour.  I'll have to look that up some time.

Anyways, on to what progress I have actually made tonight.  I put together a few lines toward the completion of my "longer project." For now, I'm still going to refer to it as my "longer project" because I don't want to call it a book yet.  If I call it a book and don't finish it, then it will just be a big disappointment.  But a longer project is just something I'm working on that's longer than anything else I've done.  Anyways, here's a few random thoughts I had tonight:
<blockquote class="quote">
Growing up in the South, all you have are dreams.
You ain't getting out because you ain't no better than any of the other trailer trash down here.

There comes a time in every man's life when he has to ask himself, "Is it worth going to Hell for?"

"What happened to that girl who wanted to sing at the Grand Ole Opry?  Who wanted to be a doctor?"
"She grew up."
"No, she gave up."
</blockquote>
A lot of times, mostly when I'm working, I have these random scenarios that pop into my head, and I just have to write them down.  I usually don't write down the whole scenario, just a few key points of the conversation or a nice quote that I come up with.  This is what I have to offer for tonight.  And yes, the three blocks seem really random, but they all fit together well in my head.  I hope I can put all this together one day into a great piece of work for all the world to see.  But until that day arrives...
