---
title    : "A Lost Girl & The Godfather Pt. 2"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2005-07-06 01:00:00 -5
category : life
tag      : [ 'dvd', 'life', 'movies' ]
era      : college
---

I'm back and not so la-la-la happy at the moment.  Well, I'm kind of neutral.  I'm not a giddy kind of happy like I was in my last post.  My BIG date was a bust.  Plain and simple.  The girl seemed fairly interesting talking with her over the phone, and then when she stepped out her car she just went cold.  It's like she didn't even want to be there.  Fine with me, she's the one who drove all the way over to my place for my cookout.  Oh well, at least I got back on the horse.  Metaphorically speaking, I mean the dating horse.  She hasn't answered my calls since then.  I know she's not interested in me any longer, and I'm not particularly interested in her either.  But, I just want give the situation some resolution, or maybe, just maybe, try a one-on-one date.  I doubt it'll happen, however, I'm still open to the possibility.  The funny thing is, I'm kind of have this schoolboy crush on her friend that she brought along.  Her best friend would be a more exact phrase.  That's just not right.  I believe I must've done something wrong in a past life to deserve this.  Anyways, that's that, and I don't want to ramble on about it all night.

In other news, I just happened to go ahead and purchase <em> The Godfather Pt. 2</em> and added it to my growing <a href="/movies"> collection of DVDs</a>.  I really enjoyed Al Pacino's performance, just as well as the original.  But, Robert De Niro's role as the young Don Vito and his rise as the head of the Corleone family was almost breathtaking.  If you have yet to see this classic film, now's the time to add it to your own collection.
