---
title    : "The Historian: A Gothic Final"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2005-12-09 04:17:00 -5
category : school
era      : college
---

Wow!  What a night!  What a day!  I have spent the better part of it, since around 1:30 pm until just about now, reading Elisabeth Kostova's <i> The Historian</i> I stopped at around page 120 yesterday, and now I have made it to 445.  I did sleep for about 3 1/2 hours in that time and accidentally missed the first half of <i> Smallville</i>.  So, there went 4 hours of my time after watching the last half of the episode.  If I didn't have to mark notes, I could be a good deal farther into the novel, but I must keep note of certain things.  I do have a final exam in about 13 hours, so I have to finish the last 200 pages of this book by then.  First, I must get some sleep.  I'm shooting for about 4 hours; that way I can have plenty of time to finish the book and take that exam.

The sad thing is that I don't have to make any higher than a 57 on the test to keep a B in that class (The Gothic), but if I made a 100 (not likely) I would still have a B.  That's how worthless this test is for my grade.  But, I suppose I must have some knowledge of the text to keep that B.  I have made straight Bs throughout the entire semester in that class.

- <strong>Essay 1:</strong> 80
- <strong>Essay 2:</strong> 84
- <strong>Essay 3:</strong> 86
- <strong>Reading Response Avg:</strong> 85

However, I did happen to make a 9/10 and a 10/10 on two of my six Reading Responses.  That's how I brought the other four 8/10s up to 85%.  So, the final is worth 15% of my grade.  I know this is terribly boring, and you (whoever you may be) have quit reading this a good while ago.  Okay, I'm going to sleep now.  I should be back after my final, working on the site a bit.  I will have some free time then, because my last 2 finals are not until Tuesday.
