---
title    : "Wednesday, April 27, 2005"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2005-04-27 01:49:00 -5
category : general
era      : college
---

I've been struggling with this for a few days now. How do I reconstruct this site, and let me have full and total control over it? Well...There's lots of different ways. I've went through using wordpress all the way to taking away my iframe.  Oh, how I loved that iframe.  It feels like it's part of me.  I've had it for over a year now.  I actually feel like I want to cry over the thing. But, it's messing with my control. And I need my control.  So, buh-bye iframe! I got rid of the wordpress thing.  Well, I kept it, just in case I decided to go back to using it.  I didn't really feel like putting in the time to fully modify its code.  So, there goes that, for now.

I've restructured a lot of the code on this site.  I want to make it a little more css-friendly.  It was tough trying to spiff-up the css while keeping control of my site skins/themes/designs.  I managed to pull through in the end.  As you can see, hopefully.  There's a few twicks & twerks that need to be worked out.  Mainly, I have to go through and reset all the links to where they won't try to load in my iframe (which no longer exists).  Because when they try to load in the iframe it pops open in a new window.  And believe me, that's a lot of links to go and fix.  That could take a few days.

So, don't get angry if the site isn't fully functional at the moment.  I'll have it up and running full speed in no time...
