---
title    : "Unobtainable Highs"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2005-06-16 01:15:00 -5
category : life
tag      : [ 'dvd', 'life', 'television' ]
era      : college
---

I think my head has been in another place, away from the rest of me, these last few days.  I get so emotionally wrapped up when I watch a new series on <acronym title="Digital Video Disc"> DVD</acronym>.  Mostly, the characters and plots just make me wonder what my life would've been like if I had been stuck in their world and situations.  I'm actually considering starting to play basketball now.  Probably not on a recreational team or anything, just something to do to help me get back in shape.  <em> One Tree Hill</em> has done that to me.  It's probably a good thing though.  I need something for exercise these days.  I'm almost through with the 3rd disc for the second time already.  I've only had the set since Sunday.

I think a lot of my interests are spawned by my interest in television, film, and writing.  I get caught up in the lives of these other people, and I want their drama, their life, their depression, their love.  I want it all.  Maybe I sometimes get lost because it's something different, and we all hope for something better than what we have.  I know I do.  Although, sometimes I have to sit back and reflect on the high points involved with my life.  And there has been some really high points in there that occasionally seem unreachable again.  But, I know I've lived a fairly good life, and that there are still many, many more good things to come.  I know this because nothing's unobtainable.
