---
title    : "Dark Circles, NaNoWriMo, & More Reconstruction"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2005-00-00 04:29:00 -5
category : [ 'updates', 'writing' ]
tag      : [ 'nanowrimo', 'writing' ]
era      : college
---

Yes, it is well past my bedtime.  The words on my monitor are becoming blurry.  Well, they are blurry.  I wish I had my web camera up and working.  Hell, I don't even know where it is.  I want to show the dark circles forming around my eyes.  Lack of sufficient sleep for an entire week will do that to a man.

I've decided that I'm going to do this <a href="http://www.nanowrimo.org" title="National Novel Writing Month" rel="external"> National Novel Writing Month (NaNoWriMo)</a> thing.  Yes, I will be continuing my "longer project" with this, especially since my "longer project" isn't much more than a page at the moment.  The rules for this event is to write from November 1, 2005 until November 30, 2005, and complete 175 pages or 50,000 words.  Pretty simple, eh?  I am going to try it out either way.

I've also been trying to update this site tonight.  Yeah, like that's gone well.  I almost put a image gallery on here, but it was just too complicated.  Then I tried some other things, and the work just got too tedious.  I don't know if I actually accomplished anything.  Well, I did start restructuring the <a href="/films"> Films</a> section of the site tonight.  I didn't make it very far.  Oh yeah!  Wait!  I did fix up a lot of the code in the blog section.  I made the links to the categories and the archives and the comments fit with the rest of the site design.  Mostly, it was just the headers.

I guess I need to be off to bed.  I've got a big day tomorrow.  I must clean.  If I do nothing else, I must clean.
