---
title    : "Powerful"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2005-11-15 03:31:00 -5
category : school
era      : college
---

What a day!  And I don't mean <i> What a day!  It was great!</i>, but I mean <i> What a day, it was long and hard and seemed to suck all the life I had left in me!</i>  I, literally spent 10 1/2 hours on campus today.  I went from 9:00 am until 9:00 pm, only taking a hour-and-a-half break to go deposit a check and get something to eat.  Then I came home, and done schoolwork for 5 more hours.  That's a total of 15 1/2 hours spent, devoted to school in an entire day.  Now, you (my audience) can see the pressure I am being put through.  Over 15 hours!  If that's not madness, then I don't know what is.  I'm lucky I'm still alive enough to tell this tale.

I was looking over some of the chapters that I've written for <a href="http://www.nanowrimo.org" title="NaNoWriMo Website (New Window)" rel="external"> National Novel Writing Month</a>, and realized something.  This thing that I realized was how powerful some of the words on those pages were (or computer screen in this case).  At least they seemed powerful to me.  And as I've said in an ealier post, an artist must first please himself with his own work.  It is for him and him alone to enjoy, then he can release it to the world's criticism.  Since I believe that I can actually write powerful, moving words, I must finish this contest if not only to see if I can do it, but also to see if I can write a body of work that is powerful and has substance.

Anyways, I'm off to get a few hours of sleep and...well that's it.  I'm off to get some sleep.
