---
title    : "The Book Club, Newsletter, & I Wanna Be A Poem"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2005-10-11 03:07:00 -5
category : [ 'books', 'school', 'updates' ]
tag      : [ 'books', 'writing' ]
era      : college
---

Yet again, another long day.  Complete.  Finished.  As soon as this blog is over and done.  I finally got through with my reading, for tonight, with <i> The Picture of Dorian Gray</i> and <i> White Teeth</i> for my Gothic and Contemporary British Literature classes, respectively.  Both have been enjoyable reads so far.  But, I don't want to rant on about them and what I'm doing in school.  I'll probably get to posting my thoughts on the books in my new section entitled <a href="http://justintadlock.com/reading"> Book Club</a>.  It is a new idea that I'm working on in order to let my readers (all 2 of you, possibly??) keep up with what I'm reading at the moment.  I'll probably keep it updated every month or so.

Another thing that I'm putting together is the <a href="http://justintadlock.com/newsletter"> Newsletter</a>.  I want to have this newsletter in order to keep people updated on what's going on with the site and possibly just other random things.  It's, actually, more of a project for me, so I can practice my writing skills in another forum.

I did come across a poem the other day that really stood out in the <a href="http://www.auburn.edu/circle" rel="external"> Auburn Circle</a>, a student and faculty semesterly art and literature magazine in which I submitted a piece of my own work for this Fall semester's issue.  I submitted <i> Fading Away</i>, an essay which I wrote 3 years ago.  Anyways, here's the poem:
<blockquote class="quote">
<b>I wanna be a poem</b>

I wanna slice circles
around my neck so deep
that you feel me bleed,
taste the metallic, and tear
your shirt into pieces
to save me

I wanna spit scriptures
that move you from the back
to the front pew
kicking up your heels

I wanna give multiple
mental orgasms to men,
women, and in-betweens,
until each of them forgets
what gender means

I wanna dance a jig, yes
as in jigaboo,
proud that being me means
not being you

I wanna recreate
that visceral quake you make when
your 'favorite' uncle slithers
between your sheets, beyond the moon's glow,
whispering…

I wanna be a crack pipe,
your hand, and the rock that
lulls you to sleep and sends you
into your mother's purse
for change

I wanna be bass lines that turn
back flips, mix with sly
metaphors and signifying quips.

I wanna be eye rolling,
switch finding, closet praying,
fatherless birthday-ing, hand game
playing truth

<b>KanFinae Jones</b>
</blockquote>
This poem really struck a chord in me (for lack of a better phrase).  It wasn't the meaning of the poem or anything about what it represents, but the thing that got to me was the <i> beauty</i> of it.  The ART itself.  The art wanted me to become a better writer.  The poem made me want to write the art.  It helped awaken the lost artist in me.  The artist that I used to be, or at least wanted to be.

To view the poem and other great works of literature and art in .pdf format go here: <a href="http://web6.duc.auburn.edu/circle/documents/circle-v31-i2.pdf" rel="external"> The Auburn Circle, Spring 2005, Volume 31, Issue 2</a>.
