---
title    : "Thursday, January 27, 2005"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2005-01-27 23:31:00 -5
category : old-posts
era      : college
---

Two days in a row!  That's a new personal record for me! At least, as of late. I plan on making this a more freqent thing. One thing I need to do every day is write, since I'm going to be an English major. I at least need to write something every single day of the week. Even if it's here, typing nonsense into my little blog area.

So, Justin, how's your day been?  Loooooooooong.....And I mean that literally.  I had class starting at 8:00 this morning and didn't get out of school til' almost 5:00.  Really, I shouldn't complain.  In high school I usually didn't get home until after seven o'clock every night.  Especially with all my extracurricular activities.  Anyways, I started the day off horribly.  We had a Biology quiz today, that I knew about beforehand, and I totally blew it.  I got 4/8 questions right. And one of them was a freebie! I'm not going to let that happen again.  I started making my flash cards for Biology today, just like I'm doing with German, to help facilitate my learning experience.  I might just do that with all my classes.  It's easier to pick apart single things and remember them when you put them on index cards. And it makes studying a little less stressful, since you get to have some physical activity for every question (moving the index card to the back of stack).

Anyways, the rest of the day was spent in class/lab and studying at the library between classes.  Then, of course, I came home, popped in a disc from Buffy: Season 7 and watched that until Point Pleasant came on at 8:00.  I have some commentary on that episode in the <a href="http://forum.dark-autumn.com" title="Dark Autumn Forum" rel="external"> Forum</a>.  So go check that out.  And sign up! Alright...I think that's enough useless typing for the night.  So, until I write something useless again...

<em>Updates...</em>I added a few things today.  I put up some new <a href="http://www.dark-autumn.com/literature/index.php" target="splash"> Writings</a> today.  Just some old stuff that I've been wanting to format for a while. I also added another piece of <a href="http://www.dark-autumn.com/art/index.php" title="Art Section"> Art</a>. It's a Point Pleasant piece of work.  I've been wanting to do something with the show for a week now, but I can't seem to find any good pictures to use.  It'll probably be a while before enough reach the surface.
