---
title    : "Blogging:  Filling The Void?"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2005-12-12 04:55:00 -5
category : life
tag      : [blogging,life]
era      : college
---

I don't really feel like blogging tonight.  I don't feel like doing much, except for watching the rest of <em> Dead Like Me: Season 2</em> on DVD.  I actually never really blog though.  Well, it depends on what one considers blogging.  Let's look at what <a href="http://www.answers.com" title="Answers.com Website"> Answers.com</a> considers blogging.

<blockquote class="quote">
<strong>blog</strong>
n.
<i>A weblog.</i>

intr.v., blogged, blogging, blogs
<i>To write entries in, add material to, or maintain a weblog.</i>
</blockquote>

I suppose I do <em> blog</em>.  I "write entries in, add material to, and maintain a weblog," if that's what we consider blogging.  It just seems that to be a true "blogger," one must have something meaningful to say, something to offer to the world (or at least the internet world).  Most days, I don't seem to have that, and I'm supposed to be a writer of all things.  At least today, we get the meaning of <em> blog</em>.  If nothing else, we get that.

I could start talking about final exams, but what kind of reading material is that for my audience?  I'm moving at the end of this month.  Want to hear about that, readers?  I really don't feel like typing about moving.  Yes, I have become lifeless.  I have nothing to blog about.

That's what blogging is about.  It's about life.  It's about people.  It's about filling the meaningless void we all have, and you know we have it.  What's the point of blogging?  Or any activity?  The point is that we all have to fill in that hole.  What else is there?

And I could go on and on and on raving about how trivial life is, but tonight's not the night.  So, I'll leave you with what you have:  A few minutes of void-filling by reading this entry on this useless space on the net.
