---
title    : "House of Hypocrites & Book Wish List"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2005-10-18 19:00:00 -5
category : [ 'books', 'writing' ]
era      : college
---

I have spent most of today in the library.  What a waste? Maybe, maybe not. I finished about 1/4 (possibly) of my Gothic paper, and it's due Thursday.  The reason I am posting so early is, well, I'm taking a break from school, giving my brain a rest.  And I figured I'd put up this little piece that I was working on, today at the libary, towards my <i> longer work</i>.  So, here it is:

<blockquote class="quote">
We sat down at the dinner table, the three of us.  Some concoction of rice and beef lay steaming on potholders.  We were using the <i> real</i> plates tonight because we ran out of paper ones.

"Will you say the blessing with us?"

I looked up and declined very calmly.  She gave me a confused glance, almost as if she had misunderstood me.

<i>No.</i>

<i>I wasn't going to pray in this house of hypocrites.  I do not seek to renounce God, but I will not pray with you.</i>

<i>House of Hypocrites.</i>

<i>Saturday night sinners cannot be Sunday morning saints.</i>
</blockquote>

This was what I was thinking about today.  The last line is quoted (paraphrased) from a song my Uncle David wrote some years back (I'm not sure the exact name of the song either), but the quote goes like this, "You can't be a Saturday night sinner and a Sunday morning saint."

Anyways, I might be back later to post up something new, but you avid readers will have to wait to see if I do.

Ohhh, I almost forgot.  I posted up my <a href="http://www.dark-autumn.com/people/justin_tadlock/articles/BookWishList.php"> Book Wish List</a> on the last post, but I figured I'd put it right out here in front for everyone to see, at least until another post comes along and pushes this one down the page.

- <em>A Summer of Faulkner: As I Lay Dying/The Sound and the Fury/Light in August (Oprah's Book Club) [BOX SET]</em> William Faulkner
- <em>Before Writing: Rethinking the Paths to Literacy</em> Gunther Kress
- <em>Bartlett's Familiar Quotations: A Collection of Passages, Phrases, and Proverbs Traced to Their Sources in Ancient and Modern Literature (17th Edition)</em> John Bartlett
- <em>The Great Gatsby</em> F. Scott Fitzgerald
- <em>This Side Of Paradise</em> F. Scott Fitzgerald
- <em>William Shakespeare: The Complete Works</em> William Shakespeare
- <em>The Complete Sherlock Holmes</em> Arthur Conan Doyle
- <em>Of Human Bondage</em> W. Somerset
- <em>Atlas Shrugged</em> Ayn Rand
- <em>The Winter of Our Discontent</em> John Steinbeck
- <em>The Steinbeck Centennial Collection: The Grapes of Wrath, Of Mice and Men, East of Eden, The Pearl, Cannery Row, Travels With Charley, In Search of America (Boxed Set)</em> John Steinbeck
- <em>The Call of the Wild</em> Gary Paulsen

Okay, now I'm off to get something to eat, watch <i> Supernatural</i>, then go through a grueling night of essay writing...
