---
title    : "School & Books & More Books"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2006-08-16 00:32:00 -5
category : [books, school]
era      : college
---

Well, school has almost started.  Less than eight hours from now I will be sitting in my first class.  By the way, that motivation that I thought I had last night has now turned into mush.  Really, I'm just tired.  I had a really long day.  Surely tomorrow things will pick up.

I've already packed up my book bag with tomorrow's books, notebooks, and folders.  There's also a some pens, highlighters, paper clips, and my trusty 6" by 9" Greentint Steno Book (just in case I get any random ideas that need to be put to paper).  All that's missing is my student planner, which is right beside me on the bed.  I feel prepared, but not quite ready.  I've got to get myself there mentally.  I don't want to go on tonight about my key topic as of late, motivation.  I need to just get it done.

In other news, I read quite a bit on my vacation back home last Wednesday through Sunday.  I finally finished H. G. Bissinger's <i> Friday Night Lights: A Town, a team, and a Dream</i>.  I was so disappointed with some of the events that took place as they were shown in the movie.  I've already watched the movie too many times to count, and after finishing the book, I wish I hadn't watched the movie before reading it.  Although, I do think both the book and the movie are great.  I just wish the movie had been a little more accurate in showing how far the team actually went in the playoffs.

Of course, like the other 40 million people around the world, I had to read <i> The Da Vinci Code</i> by Dan Brown.  I'm not even going to touch on the many questions the novel brought up, and just say that it was a great read.  It was a wonderful mix of history and a thrill-ride.

At the end of my stay, I started reading Jack London's <i> Call of the Wild</i>.  I'm not quite finished with it yet, but so far it's been interesting.

To bore you just a little bit more with talk of books, here's the books I've bought over the last few days.  Today, I purchased Anne Rice's <i> The Vampire Lestat</i>.  Yesterday was a big day.  I got <i> Master the Basics: German</i> by Graves and Strutz to help me get back to where I need to be for Elementary German II, <i> PHP for Teens</i> by Maneesh Sethi to aid in my web design skills, Dan Brown's <i> Angels &amp; Demons</i> because I thoroughly enjoyed <i> The Da Vinci Code</i>, and <i> The New York Public Lbrary Student Planner: August 2006 - August 2007</i>.  Also, I ordered Edward Humes' <i> School of Dreams: Making the Grade at a Top American High School</i> and Elaine Pagels' <i> The Gnostic Gospels: A Startling Account of the Meaning of Jesus and the Origin of Christianity Based on Gnostic Gospels and Other Secret Texts</i> from <a href="http://www.amazon.com" title="Amazon Website" rel="external"> Amazon</a> last night.

Now, that I've ruined any chance of having any kind of readership by listing off books that I've bought, I bid whoever is reading this good night.
