---
title    : "Fiction Writing, Cell Phone GPS, & Narnia"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2006-11-07 22:49:00 -5
category : [books, school]
era      : college
---

It's been a long two days.  And I'm not even through with the stuff that I was supposed to have done today.  Well, the only thing I have left to do is finish my short story for Fiction Writing I.  I was determined to finish it today, but I simply couldn't get it done.  Fortunately, my teacher is very lenient when it comes to due dates.  One guy turned in his first story today, and we're on the second story.  So, that shows how lenient she is.

I had a presentation today also.  My group focused on cell phone GPS devices, and the positive and negative viewpoints of this emerging technology.  We did a short comical video on each side of the argument.  I'm planning on posting it on the site as soon as I can get a copy from my partner and compress it to a reasonable size.

I've also been reading <i> The Chronicles of Narnia</i> by C. S. Lewis since last week.  So, plan on getting a full review of the set of stories sometime in the near future.  It might take me a while to finish it though.  It is 700+ pages, and I'm only pushing 300 right now.

That's a little bit of what's been going on in my life recently.  Now, all I have to do is make it through the rest of the week, and I'll be almost free.  This weekend is the Auburn/Georgia football game, and I'm having a big Halo 2 bash on Friday night.  That should give me some kind of a release from the stress of this week.
