---
title     : "Tuesdays With Morrie"
author    : justintadlock
date      : 2006-09-25 00:16:00 -5
category  : books
tag       : book-reviews, books, non-fiction
thumbnail : "/wp-content/uploads/2006/11/tuesdayswithmorrie.jpg"
amazon    : "http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0307275639/?tag=justtadl-20"
era      : college
---

Every now and then a person comes along that inspires more than just a close-knit group of people around, they inspire the world, or at least a part of it.  This person was Morrie.

I was surprised to see that this book was copyrighted in 1997.  Nine years have gone by, and I haven't read this book until now.  Mitch Albom, with his usual simplistic-styled writing (probably because of his journalism background) tells a story about his old college professor that will make you think long and deep about life itself.  If nothing else, after reading this book, you will want to reevaluate your life and how you view and interact with the world.

William Faulkner once said, "The young man or woman writing today has forgotten the problems of the human heart in conflict with itself which alone can make good writing because only that is worth writing about, worth the agony and the sweat."  Albom proves Faulkner right, even if this isn't fiction.  He paints a visual image of his own "heart in conflict with itself" by listening to his "coach" and looking at the world in this new and vivid way.

This book should be read by everyone.  It's relatively short (I finished it in a little over two hours).  So, take an afternoon with a few extra hours and enjoy yourself, possibly seeing truths that you may have never seen before.
