---
title    : "Finding Motivation To Finish It Out"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2006-08-15 01:16:00 -5
category : school
era      : college
---

I've already started to get the pre-semester emails from my professors for this semester. The most interesting so far is from Judy Troy, my professor for Fiction Writing I.

> "...write with honesty and gusto, and do not try to make somebody believe that you are smarter than you are. What's the use? You can never be smarter than you are. You try to be and everybody sees through it like glass, and on top of that knows you are lying and putting on airs."
>
> <cite>Brenda Ueland</cite>

I love it when the teachers send out these little emails.  They really get you excited about class. I've already been waiting to get in this class for an entire year, so this email just makes me more eager to see what it's all about.

I'm starting to feel a little more motivated about school. Every now and then I get these spurts of motivation, readying me for the next step, whatever that may be.  I talked about not being motivated recently in my post <a href="http://www.justintadlock.com/archives/2006/07/30/searching-for-desire" title="Searching For Desire: 07/30/2006"> Searching For Desire</a>, and I think I'm starting to feel a bit of surge coming on. I've been in this rut for a while now, since some time in the Spring, and I'm just ready to get back to the things that I want to accomplish.

So, school will be starting Wednesday.  My first class is only 31 hours away. I guess I can post my schedule for all to see:

<strong>Monday, Wednesday, &amp; Friday</strong>

<ul>
<li>Journalism 2210 (Newswriting): 8:00 - 8:50</li>
<li>German 1020 (Elementary German II): 9:00 - 9:50</li>
<li>Journalism 3410 (Photojournalism): 11:00- 11:50</li>
</ul>

<strong>Tuesday &amp; Thursday</strong>

<ul>
<li>English 4160 (Technology, Literacy, &amp; Culture): 11:00 - 12:15</li>
<li>English 4200 (Fiction Writing I): 2:00 - 3:15</li>
</ul>

I won't go on about each particular class in excruciating detail because I certainly wouldn't want to bore anyone who may be reading this entry.

Since I have to get in bed soon, I'll just leave you with the knowingness that I have found some motivation. Let's just hope that this burst of desire stays with me at least until I graduate in May.  I need to finish strong.  After that, I can find myself some new kind of motivation.
