---
title    : "Summer Reading Project"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2006-04-26 23:07:00 -5
category : books
era      : college
---

I wanted to post on some of the odd things that I've found at the library lately, but my roommate, who has my scanner hooked up to his computer, didn't scan the stuff right.  And I'm not going to go and edit each and every one of them until they are right.  I suppose I'll just have to scan them myself sometime.  Then I'll be able to post about these odd things.

So, you may have read about my summer plans in the previous post.  If you did, or if you didn't (it really doesn't matter), then you can see here that I've made a list of books I plan to read for the summer.  My summer reading project is supposed to consist of 12 books for 12 weeks, but I found it hard to narrow the list down.  I may have to do a little extra reading this summer.  Anyway, here's the list (in no particular order):

<ul>
<li><em>Pledged: The Secret Life of Sororities</em> - Alexandra Robbins</li>
<li><em>Ecology of a Cracker Childhood</em> - Janisse Ray</li>
<li><em>Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets (Book 2)</em> - J. K. Rowling</li>
<li><em>"Why Are All the Black Kids Sitting Together in the Cafeteria?"</em> - Beverly Daniel Tatum</li>
<li><em>The Chronicles of Narnia</em> - C. S. Lewis</li>
<li><em>Friday Night Lights: A Town, a Team, and a Dream</em> - H. G. Bissinger</li>
<li><em>Neuromancer</em> - William Gibson</li>
<li><em>Atlas Shrugged</em> - Ayn Rand</li>
<li><em>Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance</em> - Robert M. Pirsig</li>
<li><em>The Autograph Man</em> - Zadie Smith</li>
<li><em>On Beauty</em> - Zadie Smith</li>
<li><em>The Complete Novels of Jane Austen Volume 1: Sense and Sensibility, Pride and Prejudice, Mansfield Park</em> - Jane Austen</li>
<li><em>The Winter of Our Discontent</em> - John Steinbeck</li>
</ul>

This is what I've narrowed the list down to so far.  I might even read a few extra.  I still have a few other books by Charles Dickens, Ernest Hemingway, William Faulkner, and a few other John Steinbeck books left also.  I've let my to-read shelf on my bookshelf get too full.

Well, I've got to stop typing now because my stupid "L" key on my keyboard keeps messing up and not typing for some reason.  I have to hit the key 2 or 3 times for it to work.  That's just what I need, a computer problem.

Oh, I got the "L" key fixed.  That was a close one.  I seriously almost went mad for a few minutes there. L...L...L...L...L...L...LLLLLLLLLLLLL
