---
title    : "Quitting Work For Better Time Management"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2006-08-08 01:15:00 -5
category : life
tag      : [life, work]
era      : college
---

I quit two of my yard work jobs today, Mrs. Cannon and Mrs. Crowder.  It actually went fairly well. Especially with Mrs. Cannon.  I thought she'd be the hardest to get rid of, but she said she could probably find a replacement for me pretty soon.  So, no worries.  I just have the Pattersons left to go.  I've worked for them for two years and three months now.  I think it's time to move on though.  I've got to finish up my senior year at Auburn with good grades.  And not coming home every day, dead tired, will probably help with that.  I've had at least a 3.2 <acronym title="Grade Point Average"> GPA</acronym> the last three semesters, and I would like to bump that up a little higher.

It's just that I feel a little bad about quitting on all of them.  They've been really good to me by working around my school schedule and giving me time off when I needed it.  Plus, the money wasn't too bad either.  It's like I'm losing a big part of my life.  This is something I do three or four days a week.  These are places I go and people I see those days.  But, the truth of the matter is, is that it doesn't really help with my time management, no matter how flexible they are with scheduling work.

It is time for me to move forward to a different place in my life now though.  I've got a novel to finish, good grades to make, and I've got to figure out what to do with the rest of my life by next May.  So, time management is key.

Even though I'm losing three yard work jobs, I am getting a new one with the Event Staff.  At least, I think I am.  I do have orientation at 6 pm tomorrow, well, I guess later tonight now.  It is kind of late or early or whatever.  Speaking of late, it's time for bed.
