---
title    : "Summer 2006 Goals"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2006-04-24 00:02:00 -5
category : life
tag      : [goals, health]
era      : college
---

Summer's almost here.  I only have 2 essays to write; one that is halfway done and due on Tuesday, and the other is due on May 1, my birthday.  Oh well.  Then I only have 2 finals this semester, and they are both on May 6, a Saturday.  Which, it just so happens, is the same day that Leslie Owens, an old high school friend, is having her college graduation party.  I hope I will get to go.  I'll have to check my exam times.  Right now, it doesn't look likely.

I did make some summer plans, or goals, whichever you prefer.

<ul>
<li>Read a book every week starting May 8.  Continue for at least 12 weeks.  So, I'll have read 12 books by summer's end.</li>
<li>Write 1000 words toward a novel every day or at least 5000 a week for 12 weeks, which is 60,000 words.</li>
<li>Blog every day, or at least 5 times a week.  Now, that'll be a feat with the way things have been going.</li>
<li>Finish <a href="/literacy" title="Literacy Project" rel="external"> Literacy Website Project</a>.</li>
<li>Shoot/Edit/Produce at least 3 episodes of <a href="/films/a-day-in-the-life" title="A Day In The Life">A Day In The Life:  The Justin Tadlock Story</a>.</li>
<li>Finish documentary-type music project for my dad by June 29, his birthday.</li>
<li>Finish my first 12 weeks of <a href="http://www.bodyforlife.com" title="Body For Life Website" rel="external"> Body For Life</a>.  Then I would like to start on a new challenge.  (Each challenge has its own subset of goals that I'm not going to take the time to list right now.)</li>
</ul>

There they are, my summer plans.  I hope I can find it somewhere deep inside myself, the power or motivation or whatever, to finish these goals.  I think they're all reasonable enough to complete, especially since I don't think I'm getting that internship with Channel 2 Public Broadcasting in Montgomery.

One final note:  I'm down to <b> 232 pounds</b>.  That's an 8 pound loss so far.  Now it's time for bed.
