---
title     : "When The Wind Blows & The Lake House"
author    : justintadlock
date      : 2006-10-31 00:45:00 -5
category  : books
tag       : [book-reviews, books, science-fiction]
gallery   :
    - "/wp-content/uploads/2006/11/thelakehouse.jpg"
    - "/wp-content/uploads/2006/11/whenthewindblows.jpg"
amazon    : "http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0446607657/?tag=justtadl-20"
era      : college
---

I had to put these two amazing books together in my review.  James Patterson's <em> When the Wind Blows</em> and <em> The Lake House</em> were a great weeklong diversion from reality.  But, actually not that far-fetched.  I just so happen to be reading Ray Kurzweil's <em> The Singularity is Near:  When Humans Transcend Biology</em> for class.  So, all of these books complement each other in a way.

The two books were a fun read.  Of course, I like just about every book I read, but not every one of them is fun.  It's a nice break from reality, with a side of love, drama, and action.

The thing I'm most interested in about the books is the idea of genetic manipulation and transformation.  I've always believed that humans will one day transform themselves far beyond, physically, what we are now, whether it be wings, robotics, or whatever else.  Patterson touches on the real issues at hand in both books.  How will we accept the next stage of human evolution?  Max and her genetically altered brother and friends have wings.  They can fly.

Although, I would like to have seen a more humanistic side of the "bad guys," the book still brings up the issues that will be brought about by these men.  These are issues that are relevant to today by way of cloning and genetic research.  Are we playing God?  Is this ethically right?  Is science being held back by its opposers?

Whatever the answers to those questions may be, Patterson delivers.  If you're not interested in the scientific and moral implications brought up in this book, it's still a great read.  One that should not be looked over.
