---
title    : "6 Billion Lunatics"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2006-04-01 02:16:00 -5
category : life
tag      : [dvd, life, television]
era      : college
---

I was looking around the Net for some Buffy quotes to add to my <a href="http://auburn.facebook.com/profile.php?id=7025214"  title="My Facebook Profile" rel="external"> facebook profile</a> the other day.  I had completely forgot about one the greatest quotes ever from Buffy.  This was from Season 5.  I forgot which episode.

<blockquote class="quote">
<em>Glory:</em>  Funny. 'Cause I look around at this world you're so eager to be a part of... and all I see is six billion lunatics looking for the fastest ride out. Who's not crazy? Look around. Everyone's drinking, smoking, shooting up... shooting each other, or just plain screwing their brains out 'cause they don't want 'em anymore. *I'm* crazy? Honey, I'm the original one-eyed chicklet in the kingdom of the blind. 'Cause at least I admit the world makes me nuts.
</blockquote>

Even though Glory was one crazy...This was a powerful quote.  "I'm the original one-eyed chicklet in the kingdom of the blind."  Powerful.  Joss Whedon and his team of writers are...I don't even have the words.  No one word, no one sentence, no one paragraph, can sum up how wonderful, not only the writers, but also the cast, they were.  What they done for television.  I could sit here at my desk and analyze every quote I copied into a text file, but that would take a while.  Plus, I would just say the same thing over and over and over.

Okay, that's what I got for tonight.  I don't want to bore anyone with my the mundane details of my life, so I'll just leave you with that powerful (I need a new word for powerful, I know, but that's what I feel when I read over it) quote from the series.  If you do anything after reading this post, read that quote again and give yourself a few minutes to think it over.
