---
title    : "Spinning Various Coins & Short Novels"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2006-05-04 00:50:00 -5
category : books
era      : college
---

Okay, this is going to be a short post.  I'm really tired, and once again, late for bed.  I actually wasted 20 minutes or so out of my life tonight.  Danny and I, while trying to get his new puppy (no name for it so far) and my cats (Oly and Smeagle) to play with each other, we ended up thumping and spinning various coins on the hardwood floor in the hallway.  This went on for 20 minutes simply because we were trying to see whose coin could continue spinning the longest.  I'm sure I could write an entire essay on <i> being a kid again</i> or something of the sort, but I'm just not up for it tonight.

Maybe I won't be so tired tomorrow night and can post something worth reading.

If anybody's out there, I would like to know something.  Do you have any short novels (300 or less pages) that you think are worth reading?  And I don't mean some crappy romance or book from the popular genre.  I mean <i> real</i> literature.  See, Danny and I are reading some books together, and we're looking for some interesting reads.  The reason we want short novels is so that if one of us gets behind a night on reading, we can easily catch up.

We just finished <i> The Catcher in the Rye</i> by J. D. Salinger.  Good book.  I would go as far as saying a literary achievement.  But, I'm not going to get into it tonight.

All right, that's it for now.
