---
title    : "Event Staff Job Probably Won't Work Out"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2006-08-23 00:32:00 -5
category : life
tag      : [life, work]
era      : college
---

There's always a multitude of topics I can discuss at the end of the day; but, as usual, I have failed to leave myself adequate time to post about them before going to bed.  I will, however, talk about my new job with the <a href="http://www.contemporaryservices.com" title="Contemporary Services Corporation" rel="external"> CSC Event Staff</a>.

Today was the first day to call and schedule myself to work for Auburn's game next Saturday.  Now, before I begin I must say that I was told that I should call in on Tuesday (10:30 - 5:00) the week before the game, and get on the schedule to work, any shift.

So, of course I called right at 10:30.
No answer.
I call back five minutes later.
No answer.
Again at 10:40 and again at 10:45 with no answer either time.

By this time I had to go to class.  I called back at 12:30 after class was over.  I finally got someone.  It was Sheika (or however you spell her name, I'm not really sure).  I told her I wanted to work the 12 hour Friday night shift.  She told me my report time was 5:30.  Okay, I'll be there.  Then, she said to report Saturday at 2:45.  And, I was like, <i> huh</i>.

To make a long, boring story a bit briefer, I was told that I <i> had</i> to work on Saturday at the game, completely going against what I was told at orientation by the head of the Auburn CSC branch.  I went ahead and told her I'd work Friday night and Saturday at the game.  Now, I'm having definite second thoughts though.  Well, I had second thoughts during that moment in the phone conversation, but I didn't want to get into with a supervisor before I even started my first day of work.  Plus, I haven't like her since I first went in to fill out an application.  I get the impression that she is a little more than racist, and I was only hired because they probably had to meet some quota when hiring white people.  But, I won't get into that.  It's really a moot point in relation to the problem at hand.

The situation is that I have season football tickets (home games) that I purchased for $95.  Now, I could have cancelled these tickets had I known that I would have to work at the actual game.  My plan was to work the night before, go home, get some rest, then go to the game on Saturday.  I can't cancel the tickets now.  Well, I can, but I won't get a refund.  So, if they won't let me work the schedule that I had envisioned, then I guess I just won't be working with them.  It's not like I need the money that bad anyway.  Plus, I could probably use the extra time to relax.  I just wanted to try out something new.
