---
title    : "Books To Read, Time, & Farewell Until After Christmas"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2006-12-22 04:04:00 -5
category : [books, general]
era      : college
---

I can't believe I forgot about my Thursday Thirteen.  I guess it's a little late to do it now.  I got wrapped up watching Season 1 of <i> Weeds</i>.  It's been a while since I've watched it.

Then, I finished reading James Patterson's <i> Maximum Ride: The Angel Experiment</i>.  I'll have to write a review for it.  I'm actually a little behind on my book reviewing.  I've finished <i> The Singularity is Near</i> by Ray Kurzweil, <i> Free Culture</i> by Lawrence Lessig (finished it a couple of months ago), and now <i> Maximum Ride</i>.  Plus, I'm still working on C. S. Lewis' <i> The Chronicles of Narnia</i> and <i> Fantastic Voyage</i> by Ray Kurzweil and Terry Grossman.

Yes, I've got a lot of book reviewing to do.  On top of that, I have an overflowing bookshelf that seriously needs to be worked through.

I probably should've read more than one book this week, especially since it was my lazy week.  With Christmas coming up next week, I will need to clear off some space for my new books.  It probably won't hurt to finish one or two over the weekend.

Being lazy for a week makes you realize how much you actually needed to get done during that time.  I guess I can get to work on things next week.

I still haven't gotten <a href="http://booksinbed.com" title="Books In Bed" rel="external"> Books In Bed</a> running perfectly yet.  I want to start a Zadie Smith fansite sometime in the near future.  Create a new theme for this website.  Read a few of the 30 books or so on my to-read shelf.  And many more things on my neverending list of things to do.

What I need more than anything is more time.  I'm already starting to worry about how many days I have left before classes start back, which is January 8. The beginning of the last semester of my education, at least for a while.

I'm now stopping myself from starting a full-blown rant on useless information, and I will bid my readers farewell for a few days.  I'll be heading home for Christmas until Tuesday.  Unless, I find the time to get on the Internet to blog for a few minutes while I'm at my dad's, I'll be away from the blogosphere until next week.

Farewell.  And Merry Christmas!

One final note:  Go check out my sister's website, <a href="http://amynrussell.com" title="Amy N. Russell" rel="external"> AmyNRussell.com</a>, if you're looking to bring some holiday cheer into another blogger's life.
