---
title     : "Reaching Darkness: WordPress Theme"
author    : justintadlock
date      : 2007-04-22 20:23:00 -5
category  : [wordpress, wordpress-themes]
thumbnail : "/wp-content/uploads/2007/09/reaching-darkness.jpg"
era      : college
---

<h3>Theme Information:</h3>

<ul>
<li><strong>Description:</strong> A 900px, fixed-width, dark, grayish, widget-ready, rounded corners, 3-column design.  Designed to get a lot of information on the page in a clean and organized manner.</li>
<li><strong>License: </strong> GPL</li>
<li><strong>Requirements: </strong> Wordpress 2.1+</li>
<li><strong>Support:</strong> <a href="http://justintadlock.com/forums" title="Forums"> Support forums</a></li>
<li><a href="http://justintadlock.com/downloads/reaching-darkness.zip" title="Download Reaching Darkness Wordpress Theme">Download Theme ([download#23#hits])</a> | <a href="http://justintadlock.com/wordpress-themes/index.php?wptheme=Reaching Darkness" rel="external" title="Test The Reaching Darkness Wordpress Theme"> Test Theme</a></li>
</ul>

<strong>Download and demo currently not available.</strong>

<ul>
<li><strong>Other Features:</strong> Clean and organized list of all posts in the "archive" and "category" pages with their date, time, and number of comments.</li>
<li><strong>Notes:</strong> It's very important that you look over the "readme.txt" file.  Only "Sidebar 2" and "Sidebar 4" are widget-ready.</li>
</ul>

I must mention that I got the idea for the menu from <a href="http://veerle.duoh.com" title="Veerle's Blog"> Veerle's Blog</a>.

<del>Also, to use this theme with the multi-column category and links lists, you're going to need the <a href="http://www.dagondesign.com/articles/multi-column-category-list-plugin-for-wordpress" title="Multi-Column Category List Plugin"> Multi-Column Category List Plugin</a> and the <a href="http://www.dagondesign.com/articles/multi-column-link-list-plugin-for-wordpress" title="Multi-Column Links List Plugin"> Multi-Column Links List Plugin</a>.  Both of these are packaged with the theme for your convenience.  You don't have to use the plugins, and I have error-proofed the theme in case you don't use them.  That way, you won't get any PHP errors.</del>

This is my third Wordpress theme.  I wanted to go with something dark this time because I think that I fall short when designing dark themes sometimes.  So, this was a challenge for me to overcome.  I think I done fairly well.

Usually, I try to keep all themes either fluid or 800px wide.  I didn't feel I could do that with this theme because of what I wanted to get on the page.  Therefore, if you have a lot of 800x600 users, I wouldn't recommend using it.

As always, leave a comment either praising me or telling me what I've done wrong.  If you have problems, please let me know so that I can fix it for the rest of the community.

<h3>Update: (April 26, 2007) </h3>

I've made some major changes, and now have released Version 1.1.  The most important changes I should note are that I have dropped support for the Multi-Column Category and Links plugins.  This was because I couldn't get a simple reply to a question I had about a bug with the Multi-Column Links Plugin.  Also, I may change this to a fluid width layout in the future if there's enough people who want it.
