---
title    : "My Last Day Of Class"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2007-04-30 23:59:00 -5
category : school
era      : college
---

Today was my last day of class in college, at least until I eventually come back.  It's also the day before my birthday.

I thought about not blogging today in remembrance of the Virginia Tech victims, and participating in <a href="http://onedayblogsilence.com" title="One Day Blog Silence"> One Day Blog Silence</a>.  Well, I've been silent long enough since the day's almost over.

It was bit of an odd day.  Of course, today I was a little more observant of the things going on around me &mdash; I didn't want to miss a thing on my final day.

To start the day, I woke up an hour late, which gave me only 2 1/2 hours to write an entire article on One Day Blog Silence for my Feature Writing class and finish my Tiger Cub journal.

On to the odd things.  The first odd thing I noticed was at about 10:45 this morning.  A guy is walking between the Haley Center (where all my classes are) and the library.  He's walking right into the sprinklers.  After being sprayed for about 10 seconds, he looks around and finally noticed he's getting soaked.

About 20 minutes later, I'm walking back to the library from class, and a guy walking ahead of me is wearing a long-sleeved dress shirt, camouflage shorts, and running shoes.  I know I'm sometimes behind in the new styles, but I don't think this one will hold.  So, I'll take my chances and not flee to the nearest retailer.

While in the bathroom, you know, doing my thing, I notice there's some new writing on the wall.  The old pictures and words had been scribbled over with a black marker.  Today, I saw a drawing of a penis dubbed "Glenda" and written beside it was "I Corinthians 15:33."  Obviously, I looked that up as soon as I got to my Bible as Literature class.  The quote is:

> Do not be deceived:
> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Bad company ruins good morals."

I read a little more of the chapter, which seems a little interesting.  Paul, the author, is a fairly exciting guy at times.

I actually finished Thomas L. Friedman's <em> The World is Flat</em>.  I've been reading it since late December or January.  Today was the first day in the last couple of weeks that I've had the time to sit back, relax, and do some extracurricular reading.

Our Tiger Cub program had a end-of-the-year party.  Afterward, I worked out with Scotty, actually letting him pick what type of workout we would do.

I also received an anti-hate flier today &mdash; my last flier I'll probably ever get while walking along the Concourse.  It was a response to the hate crime committed against an Asian student on April 19.  I haven't really looked into that, so I won't make any comments about the event right now.  It's kind of odd that I got this on the same day that I wrote an article related to the Virginia Tech shootings.

Overall, it seemed like an ordinary day &mdash; aside from the weird things I noticed.  I did get a halfway decent parking space this morning.  Yes, on a Monday!  That's something to be thankful for.  I'm not saying it was a great space, but an acceptable space.

There are a few other things I would like to share my thoughts on about my last day, but I'm trying to get this post up before the end of the day.  I just feel like it has to be finished by 11:59 p.m.  So, I'll try to share those thoughts at a later time.  However, I'm sure I'll forget them when the time comes.

Mostly, I need a moment to reflect on what this day means.  Maybe that's something I need to do personally, something that I can't put into words just yet.  I finished my last class at 12:50 this afternoon.  That's something I definitely need to think about.
