---
title    : "Changing My Life, Again"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2007-02-27 19:18:00 -5
category : [health, life]
era      : college
---

Yesterday, I told myself that I was going to change my life.

Today, I told myself that I wish I didn't say that.

I'm restarting my <a href="http://bodyforlife.com" title="Body For Life" rel="external"> Body for Life</a> program.  This change has been a long while coming, and I should've started back months ago.  But, there's nothing I can do about the past.

For those of you who don't know how I transformed my body last year, here's a few things I changed:

<ul>
<li>Dropped from 240 pounds to 214 pounds in 3 months (26-pound loss).</li>
<li>Lost 2-3 inches off my waist size.</li>
<li>Felt healthier than I ever have before.</li>
<li>Felt comfortable enough to wear a "wife beater" in public (though I didn't do that much because it's kind of a tacky look).</li>
<li>I had more energy throughout the day.</li>
<li>I slept more comfortably.</li>
</ul>

It felt great.  The energy I had every day helped me not only in physical terms, but mental.  My mind was always fresh.  I could get up every morning and fly through homework.

Now, I want that back.  Of course, Spring is coming upon us (if you're in Alabama, it's already Spring), so there is the obvious need to look good when it's time to go to the beach.  I won't lie about it.  Most of us are vain enough to want that.

However, I don't want to feel tired anymore.  I'm ready to get back on track, and accomplish more than I did for the first Body for Life Challenge.  At the rate I was going the first time, I have no doubt that I would have my ideal Body for Life right now.  That's at least enough of a motivational factor for me.

So, why did I say I wish I didn't decide to change my life today?  It's just because I'm tired and sore.  It's going to be this way for about a week.  I'll have to suck it up.  I worked out my chest, biceps, and shoulders a little over 24 hours ago; the real soreness hasn't kicked in yet.  Two days after the workout is when it gets bad.  I also ran a half mile today, and walked back.  I know, it's not much, but it's a start.  Cardio is always my weakest part.

Tomorrow, I'll do my lower body workout.  The soreness resulting from that will make today feel like heaven.  Wish me luck on my new adventure.  Or, better yet, give me motivation.  That's the most important thing.
