---
title    : "My First Week In South Korea"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2007-08-26 22:15:00 -5
era      : south-korea
category : [life, south-korea, teaching, work]
---

It's been a few days since I last blogged, I know.  I'm finally settled into my apartment in Sunae.  That's after spending a week in what my coworkers call the "love motel."  I think that has something to do with the motel-provided condoms and the pay-by-the-hour rates.

I've enjoyed the school so far, but I won't mention much about my actual work here on the site because I know people have gotten fired for blogging about work in the past.  Nevertheless, I'm enjoying it.  If you ever do want to know more details about my work, which is teaching Korean children English, you can just ask in the comments and I can e-mail you.

So far, I've enjoyed South Korea.  Sure, after a week, I've felt a little homesick.  But, I'm sure that's more to do with not being able to call everyone I'm used to calling.  My cell phone was like a drug, and I'm feeling some of the withdrawal pains now.

The language barrier is a little rough, but as long as you can figure out the money system, it's easier to get around.  I've really got to learn my numbers.

I've tried Korean barbeque, Korean pizza, and various cabbage-type things (I actually enjoy cabbage now, who knew?).  However, I haven't been eating as much since I've arrived, which may not be a bad thing considering how much weight I've gained in the last year.

My first week has been a little overwhelming&mdash;learning a new job, language, culture, and city.  Even though it has been been overwhelming, I've enjoyed the experience thus far.

I plan on updating with some pictures at some point, and becoming a more frequent blogger also.  Now that I'm settled in, I'm sure it'll be easier.
