---
title    : "Wedding War Cry"
subtitle : "How we should step into marriage"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2007-10-17 23:02:00 -5
era      : south-korea
category : [life, south-korea]
---

This past weekend, I experienced my first Korean wedding.  I didn't want to go because I was extremely sore from the "mandatory fun" called Avalon Sports Day (all the teachers had to participate in the oddest sporting event ever at my school).  However, I'm glad I got the chance to see this.

One of my Korean coworkers got married on Saturday.  The most interesting part of the ceremony, mostly because I couldn't understand a word that anyone said other than a song that was sung in English, was the Korean version of "I do."

Generally, the preacher says, "Will you take this man/woman to be your husband/wife."  Then, the groom or bride says, "I will" or "I do" or "Yes" or some variation of those in a normal tone of voice.  The groom in this wedding shouted&mdash;literally shouted&mdash;his vow to his bride.

I may not have understood the words, but I understood their power.  He was telling the world that he was ready to go into this and not look back.  I had goosebumps.  Never in my life have I seen or heard someone so ready to step into the commitment that is marriage.  And I've been to a lot of weddings.

That's why I call it the "Wedding War Cry."  Men are always pumped up, with "clear eyes and full hearts" (<em>Friday Night Lights</em>), when they step onto the battlefield.

Maybe that's what we should change about marriage in America.  The bride and groom should shout "I do" when in front of the altar.  They should shout it in front of their friends and family.  They should shout it to their God or gods or metaphysical force.  They should go into it like they are ready to fight as long as it takes.

Otherwise, what's the point?

<del>When I get married</del> If I get married, I want to shout "I do."  I want let my wife know that I'm in for the long haul.  Tell the world that this is the person I belong to and she belongs to me.  Nothing can brake our bond.

Marriage is a battle, right?  Maybe we should go into it as if running into a front line of 1,000 bayonet-armed men.
