---
title    : "How To Deal With Internet Frustration"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2007-03-14 01:03:00 -5
category : general
era      : college
---

I wanted to write a review of James Patterson's <i> Maximum Ride: School's Out &mdash; Forever</i>, but I had a slight problem.  My Internet connection kept going out.  Every 5 minutes or so, I'd have to remove the computer from my lap, get off the bed, walk into the next room, then reset the router.  This happened at least seven or eight times.

I got so mad one time that I just punched my bed a few times as hard as I could.

It was one of those moments where you get so frustrated that you want to hit something.  I figured the bed was better than the wall or something else hard.  I don't know if this is just a guy thing &mdash; wanting to hit something when frustrated &mdash; or if most people do this.

Do you ever get so mad that you just find something to hit?

I don't normally do this.  Actually, I don't know the last time I've even swung my fist at anything.  I'm not a violent person.  I'd rather it had been someone from Charter Communications I'd hit.  My bed is precious.  It is comfortable, and has given me many a good night of sleep.

Okay, I don't want to really hit anyone from Charter (in case they are reading this right now).

Don't forget to stop by <a href="http://booksinbed.com" title="Books In Bed: A Book Review Site &amp; Community Forum"> Books In Bed</a> and sign up.

I'm off to sleep.  Poor, precious bed, I'm sorry if I harmed you in any way...

My Internet connection just went out again as I was hitting the publish button for this post.  So, thank you <a href="http://wordpress.org" title="Wordpress" rel="external"> Wordpress</a> for putting in that nifty save function.
