---
title    : "Hours Away"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2007-08-18 00:42:00 -5
category : [life, south-korea, teaching]
era      : south-korea
---

This will be my last post while living in America&mdash;at least this year.  In just a few short hours, I'll board a plane in Birmingham, Ala., land in Dallas, then fly 14 hours straight to South Korea.

I haven't had any anxiety attacks or anything of the sort yet, although I did feel a bit nervous earlier yesterday morning around 8 a.m. or so.  I'm sure it'll all hit me when I get to the airport.  Then again, I might not get that nervous.  I'm excited.  Sure, I'll miss my family and my two cats and my stuff, but I feel like I'm getting a blank slate&mdash;a chance to start living my life.  Plus, after two months of waiting around for this to happen, I've had a little time to accept that my life is about to change.  I've made my peace (or whatever) with what's about to happen.

I had a thought that was a bit funny to me today&mdash;it's about my mom and grandmother.  They keep telling me they wish I would just stay (even though they want me to be happy and...).  But, it's so weird how I've been told my entire life to "go do something with your life" or "go be somebody," then I'm told "don't go" when I actually am going to do something.  Just a thought.  I realize everyone means well.

I'm pulling an all-nighter tonight though.  My flight leaves at 6:35 a.m.  That means that I need to be at the airport by 4:30, which means I have to leave by 2:30 to make it on time.  Since my parents are driving, I'll probably take a nap on the drive up there.  I'm sure I'll get a little sleep on the 14-hour flight from Dallas to South Korea.

I've packed <em>Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows</em>&mdash;I'm halfway through it right now.  Since I might finish it, I've also packed Stephen King's <em> The Gunslinger (Dark Tower series)</em>.  With a computer and an iPod also, I'm sure I can keep my mind occupied when I'm not sleeping.

Basically, I just wanted to put in one last post before I left.  Some final words.  I'm ready to go see what this thing's all about.
