---
title    : "Official Week Of Book Reviews"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2007-01-17 01:25:00 -5
category : [books, school]
era      : college
---

It's been a long day thus far, and I'm ready to fall out or fall into bed.  I'm writing mostly because I need to get back into a writing mode.  Fairly soon, I'll have tons of papers for school, and I'll need to get back into that mode to do a good job.

One bit of news:  I made the Dean's List last semester.  My certificate came in the mail last week.  So, whoopie! or whatever.

I do have plans for this week.  I'm officially making it the week of <a href="/wordpress/index.php/category/book-reviews" title="Category: Book Reviews"> Book Reviews</a>.  Yes, that's right.  I'm going to do it.  I've read a few books that need a little bit of thought and reflection on them.  Last post, I reviewed <a href="/wordpress/index.php/2007/01/16/singularity-is-near" title="The Singularity is Near"> The Singularity is Near: When Humans Transcend Biology</a> by Ray Kurzweil.  My upcoming reviews will include (in no particular order):

<ul>
<li><em>The Chronicles of Narnia</em> by C. S. Lewis</li>
<li><em>Radical Evolution: The Promise and Peril of Enhancing Our Minds, Our Bodies &mdash; and What It Means to Be Human</em> by Joel Garreau</li>
<li><em>Maximum Ride: The Angel Experiment</em> by James Patterson</li>
</ul>

So, encourage me to review these books this week.  I'm still reading <em> Fantastic Voyage</em> by Ray Kurzweil and Terry Grossman.  Now, I've started on <em> The World Is Flat: A Brief History of the Twenty-First Century</em> by Thomas L. Friedman; <em> If You Want to Write: A Book About Art, Independence, and Spirit</em> by Brenda Ueland; <em> More Than Human: Embracing the Promise of Biological Enhancement</em> by Ramez Naam; and <em> Emma</em> by Jane Austen

Yes, I need to finish one book before I move on to the next.  I know this, yet somehow, I don't listen to myself.
