---
title     : "Magtastic: WordPress Theme"
author    : justintadlock
date      : 2007-10-20 03:26:00 -5
era       : south-korea
category  : [wordpress, wordpress-themes]
thumbnail : "/wp-content/uploads/2007/10/screenshot.gif"
---

<h3>Theme Information:</h3>

<ul>
<li><strong>Description:</strong> A 920px, fixed-width, 2-column, widget-ready theme.  Its focus is for fun news blogs and sites.  Features a custom home page, sidebars, and templates.</li>
<li><strong>Requirement(s):</strong> Wordpress 2.1+</li>
<li><a href="http://justintadlock.com/downloads/magtastic.zip" title="Download Magtastic: WordPress theme for fun news and magazine sites">Download Theme ([download#17#hits])</a> | <a href="http://demo.justintadlock.com/index.php?wptheme=Magtastic" title="Test Magtastic: WordPress theme for fun news and magazine sites" rel="external"> Live Demo</a></li>
</ul>

<h3>Free header image:</h3>

The first 20 people that request it, will get a free header image customized by me.  Nothing complicated, just something that looks like the header on the <a href="http://demo.justintadlock.com/index.php?wptheme=Magtastic" title="Test Magtastic: WordPress theme for fun news and magazine sites" rel="external"> live demo</a>.

<h3>Features:</h3>

<ul>
<li>Newspaper- / Magazine-style layout with a customized front page.</li>
<li>Feature article listed on front page with a thumbnail.</li>
<li>Specific styles for each type of page (category, archive, etc.).</li>
<li>Customized sidebars for different pages of the site.</li>
<li>Integrated WordPress 2.3 tag support.</li>
<li>Placeholder divs for ads.  Great sidebar sizes for Google AdSense ads.</li>
<li>Three different sidebars that are all widget-ready.</li>
<li>DomTab for the for the front page to allows users to quickly access information.</li>
<li>Photoshop .psd files included for customizing your own images.</li>
</ul>

<h3>Need To Know:</h3>

<ul>
<li>You should at least glance at the readme.txt file because it explains in detail how to use the features of this theme.</li>
<li>See how to use <a href="http://codex.wordpress.org/Write_Post_SubPanel" title="How to use optional excerpts"> optional excerpts</a> to make a cleaner blog when using this theme.</li>
<li>Learn how to <a href="http://codex.wordpress.org/Using_Image_and_File_Attachments" title="Using images with WordPress"> upload images</a>.</li>
<li>Read up on <a href="http://codex.wordpress.org/Using_Custom_Fields" title="Using custom fields"> using custom fields</a>.</li>
<li>Get the latest version of <a href="http://wordpress.org/download" title="Get the latest version of WordPress"> WordPress</a> to make use of tags.</li>
</ul>

<h3>Thoughts:</h3>

I started working on this theme immediately after I finished <a href="<?php echo get_permalink(526); ?>" title="Newspaperize: A WordPress theme for news and magazine sites"> Newspaperize</a>.  I had a lot of issues with that theme that I tried to correct with this theme.  Some problems were fixed easily.  But, I also created a few other problems.

This is simply the journey of theme designing, I suppose.

For the most part, I'm satisfied with how this turned out.  I'm not as satisfied as I was with Newspaperize, but I did reach a little outside the box as far as design and color schemes go with Magtastic.  I wanted to brighten things up a little, add some color, and that's exactly what I've done.

This theme's a little "out there" for me, but I had fun with it.  I'm sure there are millions of tiny bugs crawling around in it, so feel free to report them all.

Also, I will customize a header image for the first twenty people that ask for it here in the comments (I mean that I will just change the text in the image to your site name and add your site description if you want it).
