---
title    : "Customer Service, TiVo, & New Career Idea"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2007-01-12 00:18:00 -5
category : online
tag      : [life, school, television, work]
era      : college
---

I just got off the phone with a guy from India who works for <a href="http://www.amazon.com" title="Amazon" rel="external"> Amazon's</a> customer service department.  Yes, I asked where he was from.  I think it was because I've been reading <i> The World Is Flat: A Brief History of the Twenty-first Century</i> by Thomas L. Friedman.  And reading all about the outsourcing of jobs to India led me to ask the customer service guy where he lived.

But, I stray from the subject.  <a href="http://www.amazon.com" title="Amazon" rel="external">Amazon</a> has screwed up my last two orders.  Well, the delivery people have.  They, for some reason, won't leave the package at my front door because I'm not home.  This has never been a problem before.

The first order, due December 26, was Christmas gifts for Amy, my sister, and Tim, my brother-in-law.  It's now being replaced and reshipped.  The next order, which was due today, was the second season of <i> 24</i>, and I need my <i> 24</i> fix right now.  I recently finished the first season, and I'm despearate for another great story.

I got TiVo on Monday.  This the best add-on to the television since its invention.  I even spent an hour tonight playing Wordsmith, a game on the TiVo.  I'm addicted.

And, oh yeah, I'm almost through with my first week of school.  I won't bore anyone or even myself writing about the details.  However, I will say that I potentially found a job that I might be interested in after I graduate (this came from my Editing &amp; Design professor).  Copy Editor.  The pay is a little better than a reporter's, I don't have to do all those interviews, and it's easy to move up fast because there's not a lot of competition for the job.

I know this sounds like a lot of random things for one post, but I'm trying to cram this week's happenings in this post and in a few minutes.  I had some Internet trouble earlier in the week, and I've been adjusting to the major time minimization with school and work.  I hope to be back on track from here on in with my blogging.
