---
title    : "Thursday 13 - I Do/Don't Like This Semester"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2007-02-15 23:00:00 -5
category : [online, school, work]
era      : college
---

<ol class="listSpread">
<li>I don't like that I had to buy two copies of <i> Wuthering Heights</i> for The 19th Century British Novel.  The on-campus bookstore should've had the correct version to start with.</li>
<li>I do like my Bible as Literature class.  There's way too much homework, but I enjoy learning new things about the Bible.  Plus, reading all those stories now that I heard as a kid gives me a different view of those stories.</li>
<li>I don't like walking almost an entire mile to get to the library at 8 a.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays to work.  But, I do it anyway because I wanted to get the day over as soon as possible.</li>
<li>I do like that the latest I get out of school/work any day of the week is 4 p.m.  Somehow I still have no time left to do anything, even after using all of my time management skills before the semester started to plan the perfect schedule.</li>
<li>I don't like my Introduction to Ethics professor's lectures.  He may be the most boring professor I've ever had.  And this is after five years of school.  I've actually taken to doodling in class now.  It's very sad.</li>
<li>I do like that I'll be graduating on May 10.  I'll have a degree in something.  Whatever that means.</li>
<li>I don't like the idea of finally having to go out into the "real world."  It's a bit scary.  But, I'll have that degree.  That means I'm qualified for some type of job, right?</li>
<li>I do like my 1 to 1 1/2 hours I have each day to read during my lunch break.  That's because of my superior schedule planning abilities.  I've already knocked out three books or so since school has started during this time.</li>
<li>I don't like the six-page written take-home exams from my Ethics professor.  This is supposed to be a freshman class (and yes, I should've taken it long ago or with an easier professor).  I was supposed to simply show up and make an A.</li>
<li>I do like that my birthday (May 1) is in the spring semester.  Birthday presents are always fun.</li>
<li>I don't like my graduation and birthday being nine days apart.  That means people will get me one gift for both occasions.  The "birthuation" present.</li>
<li>I do like that a professor I had last semester told me the other day to make sure to use him as a reference on job applications.  He's been in and around the journalism world since...a long time ago.  Probably 40 to 50 years.</li>
<li>I do/don't like this semester because it is one of the most important transitional periods in my life.  My stepmother told me that it would be the biggest I've ever had, but not to worry because it'll be a while before another comes along (until I get married and have kids).</li>
</ol>

Visit <a href="http://www.thursdaythirteen.com" title="Thursday Thirteen" rel="external"> Thursday Thirteen</a> to see others' lists.
