---
title    : "Temporary Solution To My Internet Problem"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2007-03-21 00:43:00 -5
category : [general, online, wordpress]
era      : college
---

For those of you who read my post <a href="http://justintadlock.com/archives/2007/03/14/how-to-deal-with-internet-frustration" title="How To Deal With Internet Frustration"> How To Deal With Internet Frustration</a> the other day, you know that I've had problems with my Internet going out.  Well, I must take back my threats to Charter Communications.  Maybe.

For the last few days, my connection has went out only twice.  And I think I know why.

I had a sort of epiphany the other day after trying to figure out how to get this whole connection problem fixed.  So, I tested the connection without my TiVo hooked up (it's wired and my computer is wireless).  That worked for a day.  The next day, I reconnected the TiVo, and 5 minutes later, my connection was lost.

The other time I lost connection was just a random event.

So, I've been testing the connection without the TiVo connected for about four days.  Everything's been working fine.

I haven't tested all the variables yet though.  It might not be my TiVo's connection.  It could be any wired connection.  It could be a mixture of wireless and wired messing it up.  I'll need to test it with another computer and my X-Box 360.

When I lived here a couple of years ago, we always had problems.  We were using a different router then.  While using the router I have now at the last place I lived, we had two computers and two X-Box 360s connected to it.  We only lost connection about once a week, which I think is reasonable.

So, I'm not letting Charter completely off the hook just yet.  I still think it's a problem with the service at this particular place.  At least I've found a temporary solution.  But, the TiVo has to be connected to know what time to record my TV shows.

I know this isn't the most exciting thing to read about, but it's all I've got tonight.  I've updated <a href="http://booksinbed.com" title="Books In Bed" rel="external"> Books In Bed</a> with this week's bestseller lists.  Also, I finally uploaded <a href="http://wordpress.org" title="Wordpress" rel="external"> Wordpress 2.1.2</a>.  The AJAX in my admin panel wasn't working with 2.1.1 for some reason.  I didn't realize this until I saw how things worked on my <a href="http://booksinbed.com" title="Books In Bed" rel="external"> Books In Bed</a> admin panel.  Everything's working great now.

Anyone else been having difficulties with the Internet lately?
