---
title    : "Top 5 TV Shows"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2007-04-15 21:20:00 -5
category : [online, television]
era      : college
---

This week over at <a href="http://mundanemonday.com" title="Mundane Monday"> Mundane Monday</a> we're listing our <a href="http://mundanemonday.com/archives/2007/04/15/top-5-tv-shows" title="Mundane Monday: Top 5 TV Shows"> Top 5 TV Shows</a>.

Anyone who knows me, will understand that this is a hard decision because I have 100+ TV series on DVD.  However, they also know that there's a few shows that will always be my favorites.  So, here's my list:

<ol>
<li><strong>Firefly</strong><br />
Joss Whedon's short-lived space-western.  I can watch those 13 episodes over and over.  It's one series that doesn't have a single episode I dislike.  I always say, "If you haven't experienced Joss, you haven't lived."  His cast and crew worked great on this show.</li>
<li><strong>Seinfeld</strong><br />
I grew up on this show.  It could easily be at the top of this list.  I can almost recite every episode.  Now, that's dedication to a TV series.</li>
<li><strong>Angel</strong><br />
Yes, another Joss Whedon show.  This is the best spin-off I've seen yet.  It tops <em> Buffy</em> because it was more serious.  It asked life's great questions.  It helped teach me that everything in life isn't black and white.</li>
<li><strong>Buffy the Vampire Slayer</strong><br />
This is here mostly because it introduced me to Joss Whedon (that's 3 if you're counting).  It was the first TV show where I felt like the writers and directors built more on character development than plot.</li>
<li><strong>Battlestar Galactica</strong><br />
This is my current favorite.  I initially picked it up because I was in a sci-fi mood.  I figured it would be some B-rated series, but it turned out to be much more than that.  I have a feeling it might be in my top list of shows for some time to come.</li>
</ol>

It's very hard to stop typing names of shows right now.  I could probably break it down into a top five in drama and sitcom, then further into a few sub-categories of each one.  This list could change in a few years' time.  Or, tomorrow.  I'm always looking for the show that can top this list.

What are your top 5 shows?  Join the <a href="http://mundanemonday.com/archives/2007/04/15/top-5-tv-shows" title="Mundane Monday: Top 5 TV Shows"> Mundane Monday Meme</a> to let us know.
