---
title    : "6 Weird Things About Me"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2007-00-00 23:22:00 -5
category : life
era      : college
---

I was searching for something to write about tonight, and I came up with almost nothing.  Eventually, I began reading some old stories and essays and random musings in "My Documents."  I found this incomplete thing that needed to be finished at some point.  I remember coming across it a few months ago on someone's website, and I thought it would be fun to complete.  So, here it is&mdash;six weird things about me:

<ol class="listSpread">
<li>I always pour milk in with my ice cream (always something with nuts in it).  Instead of eating the nuts, I leave them in the bowl to eat while I sip the milk out after finishing the ice cream.</li>
<li>I have a copy of the USA Today for every weekday of last semester. At some point, I thought this was a neat idea. I can't remember my reasons.</li>
<li>I believe Ray Kurzweil is not totally insane.  If you don't know who Kurzweil is, you can check out his site at <a href="http://kurzweilai.net" title="Ray Kurzweil's Website" rel="external"> RayKurzweil.net</a>.  Or just google him. He is the author of the bestseller <a href="http://justintadlock.com/archives/2007/01/16/singularity-is-near" title="My review of The Singularity"> The Singularity is Near</a>.</li>
<li>I like eating peanut butter sandwiches without the jelly.  I don't know why I do this; I just always have.  At some point, I was probably too lazy to mix the peanut butter and jelly, and I simply continued to eat it that way.</li>
<li>I'm a 22-year-old college guy with two cats.  I think that's self-explanatory.  It does seem a bit weird, but I feel oddly okay about it.</li>
<li>I'm kind of a loner.  Sure, I interact with other people on a regular basis and have plenty of friends.  But, I always feel a sort of peace when I'm having my "Justin time."  Sure, everybody enjoys some alone time now and again, but I think I like it a little too much.</li>
</ol>

I might not have quite reached a 10 on anyone's weird-o-meter, but that's the best list I can come up with.  It's actually kind of hard coming up with six weird things about myself.  Everything seems so normal  to me.
