---
title    : "Spring Semester 2007 & Worries"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2007-01-08 02:05:00 -5
category : life
tag      : [life, school]
era      : college
---

My first day back to school.  In just a few short hours I'll have to wake up and go to my first class of my last semester.  I'll admit, I feel unprepared for what lies ahead in the coming months and the coming years.  Maybe not entirely unprepared, but worried nonetheless.

My life, up to this point, has been preparation for this May.  It's a bit weird &mdash; I know I'm approaching one of the most decisive points in my life, but I don't <em> feel</em> like I'm approaching it.

I feel like I'm supposed to keep doing the same thing I'm doing now, the same thing I've been doing my whole life.

I'm a student.  I always have been.  In a few months, I'm not supposed to be a student any longer?  I've done this whole "student" thing for 18 years now.  I kind of like it.  I'm kind of settled into that way of life.

I mean, I haven't even posted enough in the <a href="http://justintadlock.com/topics/school" title="School Category"> School category</a> yet.

I'll probably never quit going to school though, at least I hope I don't.  I wouldn't mind getting a degree in Physics, Software Engineering, and Business.  Maybe a master's degree somewhere in there.  And yes, I am an English major.

But now, I have to prepare for something other than school.  How does one go about doing that?  I guess I'll be figuring that out soon enough.

Currently, I plan to teach high school English while earning my Alternative Bachelor's Certification for teaching.  I still think I'm that 18-year-old kid getting ready to graduate high school sometimes, just with a bit more life experience.  Soon, I might teach 18-year-olds?  I honestly feel worse for them than for myself.

Mostly, this is a post about my worries.  I have to get it out of my system now and then.  I'm sure there'll be plenty more posts where this one came from in the coming months.

I suppose I'll post my classes for this semester for anyone who's interested in what I'm taking.

<ul>
<li>The Bible for Students of Literature</li>
<li>19th Century British Novel</li>
<li>Feature Writing</li>
<li>Newspaper Editing &amp; Design</li>
<li>Introduction to Ethics</li>
</ul>

I think The Bible for Students of Lit will be interesting, but a tough workload.  And, Intro to Ethics, I should've taken that four years ago (it's a freshman class).  Maybe it'll be an easy A.  I didn't get into Fiction Writing II, unless someone drops in the next couple of days.  So, I'm still hoping for that, but it's unlikely.

I definitely need to get in bed now.  I've got to reprogram my biological clock for school hours again.  You know, go to bed at 2 a.m. and get up at 6 a.m.
