---
title    : "Brontë & The Tiger Cubs"
author   : justintadlock
date     : 2007-02-13 02:16:00 -5
category : [books, school]
era      : college
---

I honestly do not have enough hours in the day.  I still have two chapters left to read in my QuarkXpress training book for <i> Editing &amp; Design</i>.  I simply don't have time to read them.  Well, I guess I could be reading them now.  But, if I wasn't typing right now, I'd be sleeping.

I just started reading <i> Wuthering Heights</i> by Emily Bront&euml; for <i> The 19th Century British Novel</i>.  It is such a relief to get away from Jane Austen.  I don't know what it was about <i> Emma</i> that I didn't like.  Maybe it was because I was reading not for pleasure, but only for work.  I wanted to like the novel, but I never settled into it.  I'm sure I would've liked it more if I could have read it at leisure.  Bront&euml;'s novel is exciting though.  I can't wait to pick it up again and continue the story.

I can already see now that this post is not going to be centered on a single thing.

My <i> Feature Writing</i> class did start our Tiger Cub program today.  We will go to Loachapoka High School every Monday afternoon for the remainder of the semester to guide their journalism students.  Today, we were paired with one of the students.  Throughout the semester, we'll help them with the story they're working on for that month's paper.  It's supposed to be a learning experience for both us and them.

I think I'll enjoy the program.  Plus, this replaces our Friday class period.  So, I don't have to go to class until 11 a.m. on Fridays now.  That's the best news I've gotten this year.

Now, it's time for me to go to bed.  I've only got a few hours before I'm up-and-going again.
