---
title     : "If you were a WordPress theme developer: Widget areas"
author    : justintadlock
date      : 2008-10-05 08:00:00 -5
era       : atlanta
category  : [wordpress, wordpress-themes]
thumbnail : "/blog/wp-content/uploads/2008/07/wp-theme-dir.gif"
excerpt   : "In this third post of the <em>If you were a WordPress theme developer</em> series, I'm asking users to share their ideas about WordPress widgets.  What areas of a theme should come widgetized?"
---

A few months ago, I wrote about how we could <a href="http://justintadlock.com/archives/2008/04/18/widgetize-this" title="Widgetize this!">widgetize different areas</a> of our site.  Today, I want to ask everyone what areas should be widgetized.

This is the third post in my <em>If you were a WordPress theme developer</em> series, in which I'm asking users to give their feedback on how themes should work.  We've already talked about <a href="http://justintadlock.com/archives/2008/10/02/if-you-were-a-wordpress-theme-developer-page-templates" title="What page templates should be included in WordPress themes?">page templates</a> and <a href="http://justintadlock.com/archives/2008/10/04/if-you-were-a-wordpress-theme-developer-404-templates" title="What should be added to 404 templates in WP themes?">404 templates</a>.  So, add your input on those posts as well.

<h3>What are widgets?</h3>

Well, if you don't know what widgets are, you're either new to WordPress or haven't came out from under your rock in some time.  The WordPress Codex has a good explanation of <a href="http://codex.wordpress.org/Plugins/WordPress_Widgets" title="WordPress widgets">widgets</a>.

Basically, widgets let you dress up your blog with cool add-ons straight from your WordPress dashboard, which gives the average user a lot more control over what's shown on his or her blog.

Typical themes will have a certain amount of widget sections, which lets you add widgets.

In most themes, you can only add widgets to your sidebar.  Some themes have even branched out and added a footer widget section.

One of the best implementations of an advanced widget system is Ian Stewart's <a href="http://themeshaper.com/thematic-for-wordpress/" title="Thematic WordPress theme framework">Thematic theme</a>.  Even though it is a bit more advanced, it doesn't add a lot of complexity for users.  It actually makes it much easier to customize your blog.  I would definitely recommend giving it a go.

<h3>What sections of a theme should be widgetized?</h3>

I want to branch out a bit more from the standard sidebar-only widget areas.  As users, you might have a better idea about what would work great for you.

If you developed your own theme, what areas of the theme would have a widget section?  Don't let current and past trends hinder your imagination.
