---
title     : "I'll be on vacation"
author    : justintadlock
date      : 2008-06-02 13:20:00 -5
era       : south-korea
category  : [life, vacation]
excerpt   : "Yes, I know I just dropped a couple of big posts on everyone, but it was something I felt I had to do before getting a little rest and relaxation."
---

Yes, I know I just dropped a couple of big posts on everyone, but it was something I felt I had to do before getting a little rest and relaxation.

I picked up my sister from the airport Sunday night because she took the week off work to visit me out here in Korea.  We'll be traveling around and seeing a few sites.  Mostly, I'm just happy to have a little time off from work as it's been a year since I had anything resembling a vacation.

It's also been almost 10 months since I've last seen my sister, so we've already had a good time catching up thus far.

I did take her out for her first Korean restaurant experience, in which the few of us that went got to laugh a little about her use of chopsticks.  I will say that she's much more skilled at it than I was the first time (even if she got to use the easier wooden ones when I started off with the harder metal ones).

<h3>While I'm away</h3>

I'll periodically check in for blog comments as I can't leave my blog alone for more than a few hours at a time.  If you've sent me an email in the last couple of days or if you do in the next week, I'll try to get back to you sometime next week.

Feel free to offer advice over on the <a href="http://justintadlock.com/forums" title="Support forums"> support forums</a> if you're using any of my themes or plugins, or quite possibly, are bored.

<h3>When I return</h3>

My vacation is just for the week, so I won't be away too long.

I'll probably be a lot fresher afterward and be ready to start setting things in motion with <a href="http://justintadlock.com/archives/2008/05/31/project-m" title="Project M"> Project M</a>.  And please, keep the ideas coming about this project.  I'm open to pretty much any suggestions, except for maybe <a href="http://justintadlock.com/archives/2008/05/31/project-m#comment-11797" title="Comment by Honest Ape on Project M"> a section of photos devoted to Monkey-related sports</a> (I'm honestly still riding the fence on this one though).

Anyway, I'm off to relax.
