---
title     : "Making your theme's comments compatible with WordPress 2.7 and earlier versions"
author    : justintadlock
date      : 2008-11-01 23:59:00 -5
era       : atlanta
category  : [wordpress, wordpress-themes]
thumbnail : "/blog/wp-content/uploads/2008/09/wp-icon-150.jpg"
excerpt   : "Here's a quick tutorial on how to make your comments backward compatible when designing your theme for WordPress 2.7 users."
---

I've been working hard on a new WordPress theme, but I needed the theme to be compatible with both WordPress 2.6 and 2.7.

If you're a theme developer, you already know how hard it's going to be to make your 2.7 theme backward compatible because of all the new features being added.

I won't go into the details of how to put together a <code>comments.php</code> file here.  There are plenty of tutorials and themes to look at for that.

Check out Otto's <a href="http://ottodestruct.com/blog/2008/09/29/wordpress-27-comments-enhancements" title="WordPress 2.7 comments enhancements">WordPress 2.7 comments enhancements</a> tutorial to add all the extra features to your theme's comments file.

## Setting up the comment files

Let's assume you start with a WordPress 2.6-ready comments file.  What you need to do is save that file as <code>legacy.comments.php</code> in your theme directory.

Next, you need to create your  WordPress 2.7-only comments file and save it as <code>comments.php</code>.

What we'll be doing is checking the version of WordPress the theme user has  installed.  If they're using 2.7, we'll call <code>comments.php</code>.  If they're using  2.6 or below, we'll use <code>legacy.comments.php</code>.

In your theme's <code>functions.php</code> file, add this code:

<pre><code>&lt;?php

add_filter('comments_template', 'legacy_comments');

function legacy_comments($file) {

	if(!function_exists('wp_list_comments')) : // WP 2.7-only check
		$file = TEMPLATEPATH . '/legacy.comments.php';
	endif;

	return $file;
}

?&gt;</code></pre>

That's it.  All we did was filter the <code>comments_template</code>.

So, if you're looking to add a little backward compatibility to your WordPress theme, this should help a bit.

<h3>Other resources</h3>

<ul>
<li><a href="http://wphooks.flatearth.org/hooks/comments_template/" title="comments_template filter">comments_template filter</a></li>
</ul>
