---
title     : "Replacing WordPress content with an excerpt without editing theme files"
author    : justintadlock
date      : 2008-08-24 05:58:00 -5
era       : south-korea
category  : [wordpress, wordpress-tutorials]
thumbnail : "/blog/wp-content/uploads/2008/07/wp-icon-150.jpg"
excerpt   : "How to filter <code>the_content()</code> function in WordPress and switch it to excerpts with a child theme."
---

I've been working away at a new theme for the past couple of weeks.  Actually, it's a theme framework that I've been building upon for the last two months or so, slowly trying to put all the bits and pieces together.

I ran into a bit of a hitch though.

Let's suppose our front page and archives used the WordPress function <code>&lt;?php the_content(); ?&gt;</code> to retrieve all post content.  Let's further suppose we're want to modify this with a child theme to show excerpts instead of the entire post.

Yes, we could easily just change <code>&lt;?php the_content(); ?&gt;</code> to <code>&lt;?php the_excerpt(); ?&gt;</code>.  But, I don't want to edit the core files at all.  I want to be able to upgrade my theme without my modifications being broken.

<h3>Solution</h3>

WordPress <a href="http://codex.wordpress.org/Plugin_API/Filter_Reference" title="WordPress filter reference">filters</a>.

In my child theme's <code> functions.php</code> file, I added this bit of PHP:

<pre><code>// Add filter to the_content
	add_filter('the_content', 'my_excerpts');</code></pre>

This tells WP that we want to filter <code>the_content()</code> with our own function.

Here's what that function looks like:

<pre><code>function my_excerpts($content = false) {

// If is the home page, an archive, or search results
	if(is_front_page() || is_archive() || is_search()) :
		global $post;
		$content = $post-&gt;post_excerpt;

	// If an excerpt is set in the Optional Excerpt box
		if($content) :
			$content = apply_filters('the_excerpt', $content);

	// If no excerpt is set
		else :
			$content = $post->post_content;
			$excerpt_length = 55;
			$words = explode(' ', $content, $excerpt_length + 1);
			if(count($words) > $excerpt_length) :
				array_pop($words);
				array_push($words, '...');
				$content = implode(' ', $words);
			endif;
			$content = '&lt;p&gt;' . $content . '&lt;/p&gt;';

		endif;
	endif;

// Make sure to return the content
	return $content;

}</code></pre>

Now, we've changed the instances of <code>the_content()</code> that we want to excerpts.  This example doesn't strip the tags of the excerpt like the default WordPress function, but we can easily change that by changing this line:

<pre><code>$content = $post->post_content;</code></pre>

to:

<pre><code>$content = $post->post_content;
$content = strip_shortcodes($content);
$content = str_replace(']]>', ']]&amp;gt;', $content);
$content = strip_tags($content);</code></pre>

There may be a better way to filter <code>the_content()</code>, and I'd love to see what you can come up with if so.
