---
title     : 'New "super theme" on the way'
author    : justintadlock
date      : 2008-02-18 17:31:00 -5
era       : south-korea
category  : wordpress
thumbnail : "/wp-content/uploads/2008/02/header-dark.gif"
---

If you've been wondering what I've been up to lately &mdash; like not keeping on a regular blogging schedule &mdash; then you should know that I've been hard at work on a new WordPress theme.

I present to you the <strong> Options Theme</strong>.  Here's a <a href="http://justintadlock.com/options" title="Options WordPress theme demo"> live demo</a>.

What you see there is only a small sampling of what the new theme will be like.  Heck, even this theme got its own subdirectory in my site.

I'm still working on getting a few kinks out.  One in particular is the paragraphs not displaying correctly in IE with <a href="http://smoothgallery.jondesign.net/" title="Smooth Gallery"> Smooth Gallery</a>.  I may end up going another route with that functionality.  I haven't done extensive testing in any browser except Firefox, so I hope you're viewing with that browser.  If you're not, and you're having problems, tell me what they are.  Then, go download Firefox.

<h3>Why is it called the Options theme?</h3>

Because you'll have more options than ever before.  It's like <a href="http://justintadlock.com/archives/2007/12/09/structure-wordpress-theme" title="Structure WordPress theme"> Structure</a> on steroids.

I won't reveal all the details until I get this thing released sometime this week, so if you want to see it released quicker, tell me about any bugs you find.

<h3>What's left?</h3>

I have to do a lot of testing to make sure everything's working correctly.  I'm also releasing this theme with at least two separate stylesheets (will release more periodically).  I've got a few more functions to code and I'll be through.

Tell me what you think thus far and persuade me to work faster.
