---
title     : "The Workout"
author    : justintadlock
date      : 2008-10-27 21:24:00 -5
era       : atlanta
category  : [life, fitness, health, wordpress]
excerpt   : "I'm finally breaking down and getting up from the couch.  It's about time I get myself back into shape.  Here's my story."
---

As bloggers, we all know how easy it is to be a slouch, sit on our butts, not get nearly enough exercise.

The past year was no different for me because I was working a full-time job and working on a lot of different WordPress projects when I came home.  Needless to say, I put on a few pounds.

Now that I have a little more time (though time should never be an excuse), I'm planning on getting back into shape.  Actually, I was so tired from working out last week, that I didn't even manage writing a single post here on the blog.

Last week was a warm-up week though.  This week is the real deal.

<h2>A little background information</h2>

When I was in high school (not too long ago), I was in great shape.  I played football, shot basketball, played golf, weightlifted, and threw the shot put for the track-and-field team.  I was a member of three state-championship powerlifting teams.  I was a all-state tight end in football.  Even had a couple offers to play at small colleges that I turned down because I wanted a good education at a good college.  And those were just the school sports I was involved in.

Yes, I was very active.  And yes, I'm still a computer nerd.

Then, college came.

After a few years there, I realized that I needed to get myself back into shape.  Luckily, this wasn't too hard because of my background in athletics and food and nutrition science (I was a hotel and restaraunt major at one point, so I had to take those classes).

I coupled my knowledge with the <a href="http://bodyforlife.com" title="Body for Life">Body for Life</a> program to drop from 250 lbs. down to 215 lbs. in three months with minimal muscle loss.  Trust me, 215 lbs. is not a lot of weight if you look at my height (6'2) and body structure.  Anything under that would be unhealthy for a guy my size.  I was in great shape.

To keep this long, drawn-out story short, I fell back into awful shape again, which leads me to today.

<h2>Going forward</h2>

Mostly, I wanted to write this post to keep myself motivated.  The biggest motivator for me has always been making something official, or public, because by not going through with it, I'm not only letting myself down &mdash; I'm letting everyone that's invested a moment of their time in reading about my journey down.

My sister will also be joining me on this.  Recently, she fell from a 10-foot wall and broke two vertebrae.  She's just now gotten to the point where she can work out a bit.  In a few weeks, she should be cleared to go back to her old, extremely active lifestyle.

For now, I'm making sure she takes it slow, but she's adamant about being able to run a full marathon again in February.  I think we'll get her there though.

I'll probably periodically post bits and pieces of my journey along the way.

<h2>Health and WordPress</h2>

What in the world does this have to do with WordPress?

Well, one of the biggest driving forces behind a workout plan is keeping goals.  You need to keep track of what progress you've made.  This gives you a realistic picture of where you're at and where you've been.  After a month or two, you can notice significant changes.  That data is a big motivator for a lot of people.

We wanted a way to easily keep track of our progress, so I said, "Why don't I just put together something to take care of this?"  My sister, unlike me, is no computer nerd.  She has finally managed to understand how to send an email though.

I plan on creating <em>The Workout</em> theme.  It has to be something that easily manages workouts, eating plans, and notes.  Otherwise, my sister wouldn't have the slightest idea what to do with it.  This idea just hit me today, so I don't have a lot of stuff on it yet.  I'll keep my WordPress readers posted on the progress of this.

Anyway, I'm off to work on this theme and prepare myself for tomorrow's workout.

Of course, you could always join me in my plan to straighten my health out!
