---
title     : "Some thoughts on success"
author    : justintadlock
date      : 2009-08-26 01:44:00 -5
era       : alabama-again
category  : [business, life]
thumbnail : "/blog/wp-content/uploads/2009/08/question-logo.png"
excerpt   : "Some random thoughts about success I've been thinking about lately in my journey to find a hard-working group of people to build a business together."
---

When I first told my family that I wanted to work online and not a traditional 9-to-5 job, I received some funny faces and plenty of serious talks meant to bring me back down to earth.  I like that my family keeps me in the realm of reality.  It helps balance out some of my crazier ideas.

It's one thing to try and convince your family that you're doing the right thing.  It's an entirely different beast trying to get other people to take the plunge with you.

Over the summer, I've been talking to a few folks about expanding my projects online.  Sure, many people are <em>interested</em> in the idea.  But, when you tell them that you have no financial backing for certain projects and that the projects can fail at any time, they lose interest fast.

<h2>Motivation is key</h2>

If you're not entirely convinced you can be successful, you won't be.

Even if I convince people that things will work out financially in the long run, it's tough instilling self-confidence and motivation into everyone.  The thing people most often tell me is, "I don't really have the time."  They want success, but they don't have time for it.  Or, they want someone to hand it to them.

If you don't think you have enough time, let me introduce you to a few people I know.  How about a single mother with two kids, two jobs, and college classes to attend?  I know few people with busier schedules than her.

Not having time means you don't have motivation.

I can't even begin to tell you how many people I've referred to Ian Stewart's website <a href="http://therereallyisnosecret.com/" title="There Really Is No Secret">There Really Is No Secret</a>.  If you haven't checked out that site, it'll tell you all you need to know to be successful in all things.

<h2>Finding the right people</h2>

My journey to find the <em>right</em> kind of people for my team has been tough.  I have a handful of people that are on board right now for some upcoming projects.

I know plenty of folks online that have the right amount of determination, but right now, I want people that are close to home.  I like being able to meet people face to face and having the ability to have weekly meetings where we can all get together and run over ideas.

To find the right kind of people, you have to put yourself out there.  Get out there and make things happen.  Be open and honest.

My selling point is:  <em>If you're not willing to put your heart and soul behind a project, we're not going to be a good fit.</em>  That's what it all comes down to for me.  I don't care if you're a genius or have never even touched a computer.  You need to be willing to work hard and see it through.

<h2>What the heck am I talking about?</h2>

These are just a few thoughts I've been playing through my head lately.

I've been building a team of people that are willing to work hard and have fun on some online projects.  I'll keep everyone updated on the status of these projects (and what they are) as they near their launch.

In the meantime, if you live or know someone that lives around Montgomery, Alabama, that might be interested in working on the Web, shoot me a message through my <a href="http://justintadlock.com/contact" title="Contact page">contact form</a>.
