---
title     : "Contextually changing your theme's stylesheet"
author    : justintadlock
date      : 2009-07-27 22:49:00 -5
era       : alabama-again
category  : [wordpress, wordpress-tutorials]
thumbnail : "/blog/wp-content/uploads/2009/07/wordpress-logo-blue.png"
excerpt   : "How to dynamically load different stylesheets when you need to drastically alter the style of specific pages on your WordPress-powered site."
---

WordPress 2.8 introduced the <code>body_class()</code> function, which allows you to contextually style elements in your theme's <code>style.css</code>.  Few themes allowed this sort of functionality before this release.

While it's cool to be able to style a particular post or page (or tons of other things) with a simple <acronym title="Cascading Style Sheets">CSS</acronym> selector in a single stylesheet, it's not always enough.  Sometimes, you may need to drastically change the appearance of a page.  To do this, you'd need to load a different stylesheet.

Many tutorials will tell you to dive directly into your theme's <code>header.php</code> file.  Of course, you know I'm more interested in doing things the <em>smart</em> way by taking advantage of a theme's <code>functions.php</code> file.  This technique will allow you to easily transfer your custom code from theme to theme, use within a plugin, and it's the best method when working from a child theme.

<h2>Dynamically changing your theme's stylesheet</h2>

For this example, we have two pages we want use separate stylesheets on:  About and Portfolio.  The first thing you should do is create your stylesheets.  Drop them into your theme (or child theme) folder and name them <code>style-about.css</code> and <code>style-portfolio.css</code>.

Once that's done, add this code to your <code>functions.php</code> file:

<pre><code>&lt;?php

add_filter( 'stylesheet_uri', 'my_stylesheet', 10, 2 );

function my_stylesheet( $stylesheet_uri, $stylesheet_dir_uri ) {

	if ( is_page( 'about' ) )
		$stylesheet_uri = $stylesheet_dir_uri . '/style-about.css';
	elseif ( is_page( 'portfolio' ) )
		$stylesheet_uri = $stylesheet_dir_uri . '/style-portfolio.css';

	return $stylesheet_uri;
}

?></code></pre>

Just save and check out your new styles.

<h2>The code explained</h2>

What we've done with the few lines of code above is filter <code>stylesheet_uri</code>, which is a hook that returns your currently active theme's stylesheet.  This hook gives us two parameters we can use:

<ul>
	<li><code>$stylesheet_uri</code>
	The <acronym title="Uniform Resource Identifier">URI</acronym> to the current theme's stylesheet, which needs to be returned.</li>
	<li><code>$stylesheet_dir_uri</code>
	The <acronym title="Uniform Resource Identifier">URI</acronym> of the current theme's directory, which we can use in our own function and not have to figure out where our styleheets are.</li>
</ul>

The <code>is_page()</code> function is one of many <a href="http://codex.wordpress.org/Conditional_Tags" title="WordPress Codex: Conditional Tags">conditional tags</a> at your disposal for determining what page a visitor is currently viewing.
