---
title     : "Widgets Reset: WordPress Plugin"
author    : justintadlock
date      : 2009-03-03 19:36:00 -5
era       : atlanta
category  : [wordpress, wordpress-plugins]
thumbnail : "/blog/wp-content/uploads/2009/03/refresh.png"
excerpt   : "If you've ever lost your WordPress widgets when switching themes or they've gotten stuck in some random widget area, you should check out this plugin.  It completely resets all of your widgets."
---

Have your widgets ever been <em>stuck</em> in another widget area?  Have they ever disappeared when you switched WordPress themes?

Well, this little plugin is for completely resetting your widgets back to the factory settings.

It's not for moving widgets, saving widgets, or anything of the sort.  When I say it <em>resets</em> your widgets, I really mean it.  The slate is wiped completely clean.

<h2>Why create a plugin to reset widgets?</h2>

If you've hung out around the WordPress.org support forums lately, you've probably seen a few people wondering why their widgets disappeared when changing themes.  I also had this same issue on one of the releases of the <em>Hybrid</em> theme.

Basically, widget areas (aka <em>sidebars</em>) with unique <acronym title="Identification">ID</acronym>s will throw things off.  Widgets are added according to a widget area's <acronym title="Identification">ID</acronym>.  When you change themes that have different <acronym title="Identification">ID</acronym>s, the widgets are no longer where you might expect them to be.

<h2>Download the Widgets Reset WordPress plugin</h2>

<p class="note"><strong>Note:</strong> If you have important information saved in something like a text widget, you better find a way to save it before resetting your widgets because you'll lose that information.  In short, don't complain if you lose widget information that you decided to reset.</p>

<ul>
	<li><a href="http://justintadlock.com/downloads/widgets-reset.zip" title="Download the Widgets Reset WordPress plugin">Download</a></li>
</ul>

See the <code>readme.html</code> file in the plugin download for full instructions.

<h2>How to manually reset your widgets</h2>

Actually, this plugin just provides a pretty interface.  You really don't need the plugin.  A simple way to do this would be to drop the below code in your theme's <code>functions.php</code> file and hit refresh on your browser.

<pre><code>&lt;?php update_option( 'sidebars_widgets', $null ); ?&gt;</code></pre>

Then, just remove it.  But, if the thought of adding <acronym title="Hypertext Preprocessor">PHP</acronym> code scares you, just use the plugin.
