---
title     : 'Replacing "sidebar" in WordPress'
author    : justintadlock
date      : 2009-02-14 01:30:00 -5
era       : atlanta
category  : [wordpress, wordpress-discussion]
thumbnail : "/blog/wp-content/uploads/2009/01/blue-wp.png"
excerpt   : "We need to come up with standard terminology for naming widget-ready areas in WordPress as opposed to calling everything a sidebar."
---

I originally hopped on the <a href="http://wordpress.org/extend/ideas/topic.php?id=1384" title="Deprecate get_sidebar and 'Sidebar'">kill the sidebar bandwagon</a> around nine months ago.  The movement I had hoped would spawn from this hasn't really taken hold in the WordPress community.  Many people are content with the way things are now.

This movement is about getting rid of "sidebar" and replacing it with a more-semantic name.  I'm primarily writing about widget-ready areas that are <strong>not</strong> located on the side of a Web page.

Most developers understand that the term <em>sidebar</em> doesn't have to mean a bar on the side of a theme.  It can be a section positioned anywhere.  However, to move forward, to make everyone really understand how widgets can be powerful tools and used anywhere, we need to shed this outdated terminology.  We need to set a standard.

If a sidebar is supposed to be a sidebar and will never change, then by all means, call it a sidebar.  But, what should I call a widget section in the header?  I suppose I could call it <em>Header Section</em>, but WordPress will display this message on the <em>Widgets</em> screen:

> You are using 1 widget in the "Header Section" sidebar.

<h2>Current suggestions for replacing sidebar</h2>

Right now, I want to focus on a standard naming convention for widget-ready areas.  A few suggestions are:

<ul>
	<li>Aside</li>
	<li>Block</li>
	<li>Module</li>
	<li>Section</li>
	<li>Supplement</li>
	<li>Utility</li>
	<li>Widget Section</li>
	<li>Widget Area</li>
</ul>

The last two are two-word names, which seem to be a bit of a mouthful.  They probably won't go over well &mdash; they're just not catchy enough.

<h2>My favorite term</h2>

<em>Aside</em> is something used in Ian Stewart's <a href="http://themeshaper.com/thematic-for-wordpress" title="Thematic for WordPress">Thematic</a> to point out a widget-ready area.  I don't know where he got the idea from, but I suspect it was from <acronym title="Hypertext Markup Language">HTML</acronym> 5.

According to <a href="http://www.w3schools.com/tags/html5_aside.asp" title="HTML 5 aside tag">W3Schools</a>,

<blockquote cite="http://www.w3schools.com/tags/html5_aside.asp">
The <code>&lt;aside&gt;</code> tag defines some content aside from the article it is placed in. The aside content should be related to the article's content.
</blockquote>

I realize not everyone's <em>sidebars</em> and other widget areas compliment a particular article's content, but this is the most fitting idea I've seen.

<p class="note"><strong>Update:</strong> Realizing that some people have taken this the wrong way, I'd like to clear this part up.  <em>Aside</em> as defined in <acronym title="Hypertext Markup Language">HTML</acronym> 5 is not the only definition.  The term itself means to "to the side" (not necessarily in terms of location) or "apart from."</p>

If I had to pick a second favorite term, it would be <em>Utility</em>.

<h2>What are your suggestions for new terminology?</h2>

Whether you are pro- or anti-sidebar, I'd still like some suggestions on a standard naming convention.  Even if WordPress forever uses the term <em>sidebar</em>, I'll be making the change in my themes.

I figured it'd be better to see if the community would settle on a standard before making any changes.

So, the question is: What should we call widget-ready areas that are not sidebars?
