---
title     : "Planning my 26th birthday bash"
author    : justintadlock
date      : 2010-04-27 05:01:00 -5
era       : alabama-again
category  : [holidays, life]
thumbnail : "/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/26-birthday.png"
excerpt   : "It will soon be time for my 26th birthday. This year, I'm going to celebrate, and you all are invited to join me."
---

On May 1, I'll be hitting my 26th birthday.  I'm fairly certain that I was knee-deep in WordPress code last year instead of celebrating, so I'm planning to take a break this time around.  What's the point of life if you can't do something you enjoy on your birthday?

I'm not going to go completely crazy though.  I just want to enjoy a couple of things I love doing but haven't had the time for lately.

<ul>
	<li>Play a round of golf.</li>
	<li>Kick some ass on <em>Halo 3</em> multiplayer for about 12 hours straight.</li>
</ul>

I will not be doing these things:

<ul>
	<li>Reading or replying to emails.</li>
	<li>Working on the <em>Hybrid</em> theme.</li>
	<li>Getting involved in WordPress-related arguments.</li>
	<li><del>Checking my Twitter stream.</del> <ins>Yeah, right!</ins></li>
</ul>

If you want to celebrate the birth of me, keep reading.  I've got two options for you.

<h2>Halo 3 online multiplayer</h2>

Since I can't invite you all down here to Alabama to play golf with me, I thought it'd be fun to slaughter you in an online game.  So, if you're into <em>Halo</em>, feel free to add me as a friend and join me and some of my friends Saturday evening for a night-long <em>Halo</em> bash.

My gamer tag is <strong>justintadlock</strong>.  Yes, it's a boring gamer tag, but I couldn't retrieve my password for my older, cooler, hardcore-gamer name.

I only have a few rules:

<ul>
	<li><acronym title="Bring Your Own Beer">BYOB</acronym>.</li>
	<li>Bring custom maps (that don't involve ninja moves to avoid falling to your death) if you have them.</li>
	<li>Someone must invite <a href="http://werockwp.com/justin-tadlock/#comment-150" title="Comment on Justin Tadlock on We Rock WP">this guy</a>.</li>
</ul>

<h2>Buy me something pretty</h2>

I only find books and movies pretty.  Just so that's clear.

I don't usually promote my donation links or wish lists online, but I get asked once a week or so about donating for one of my plugins or a tutorial I've written.  So, if you're feeling generous, don't like <em>Halo 3</em>, or will be attending <a href="http://2010.sf.wordcamp.org/" title="WordCamp San Francisco 2010">WordCamp San Francisco</a> instead of playing <em>Halo</em> with me, you're certainly welcome to get me something from <a href="http://amzn.com/w/31ZQROTXPR9IS" title="Justin Tadlock's Amazon wish list">my Amazon wish list</a>.

<p class="alert">If you've ever wanted to hear a drunken Justin cursing because he can't remember which button switches back to his sniper rifle, I'd go with the first option.</p>
