---
title     : "Showing custom post types on your home/blog page"
author    : justintadlock
date      : 2010-02-02 03:22:00 -5
era       : alabama-again
category  : [wordpress, wordpress-tutorials]
thumbnail : "/blog/wp-content/uploads/2009/01/wp-dark.png"
excerpt   : "How to add custom post types to your blog post rotation on your WordPress home (blog/posts) page."
---

In the last few days, I've shown a few people a <a href="http://justintadlock.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/02/justin-tadlock-future.png" title="Justin Tadlock future home page">screenshot</a> of something I've been working on for this site.  The screenshot is of a home page displaying custom post types and not just the <code>post</code> post type.  After numerous requests for the code to do this, I figured it'd be much easier to share it here.

WordPress version 3.0 will make creating <a href="http://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/9674" title="WordPress Trac: Better support for custom post types">custom post types</a> extremely simple.  But, the techniques I'll point out in this tutorial can be used with previous versions of WordPress.

## Changing the post type on the home page

By default, WordPress shows the <code>post</code> post type on your home page.  Let's suppose we want to show several post types in addition to posts:

<ul>
	<li><code>page</code> (yes, regular pages)</li>
	<li><code>album</code></li>
	<li><code>movie</code></li>
	<li><code>quote</code></li>
</ul>

To add these, open your theme's <code>functions.php</code> file and paste this <acronym title="Hypertext Preprocessor">PHP</acronym> code into it:

<pre><code>add_filter( 'pre_get_posts', 'my_get_posts' );

function my_get_posts( $query ) {

	if ( is_home() && $query->is_main_query() )
		$query->set( 'post_type', array( 'post', 'page', 'album', 'movie', 'quote' ) );

	return $query;
}</code></pre>

That's all there is to it.

## Showing the post types in your feed

Realizing that many of you might want to also add these post types to your feed to match your blog, a small change in the code is required.  All you need to do is change this line:

<pre><code>if ( is_home() && $query->is_main_query() )</code></pre>

We'll use the <code>is_feed()</code> conditional tag:

<pre><code>if ( ( is_home() && $query->is_main_query() ) || is_feed() )</code></pre>

Now, you can have custom post types in your regular blog post rotation and your feed.  Enjoy and look for more custom post type tutorials soon.
