---
title     : "Development stylesheets for theme developers"
author    : justintadlock
date      : 2010-09-29 08:12:00 -5
era       : alabama-again
category  : [wordpress, wordpress-tutorials]
excerpt   : "How theme developers can use heavy stylesheets in development but provide lightweight stylesheets in the publicly-released themes."
---

I love comments in code.  There's probably nothing I hate more than looking through a WordPress theme/plugin and not being able to figure out what's going on.  When it comes to <acronym title="Cascading Style Sheets">CSS</acronym>, having loads of comments is problematic because it's best to keep these files lightweight to speed up page load time.

I want the best of both worlds though.

<!--more-->

WordPress has a built-in way to handle development files vs. production files for core.  However, this is not extended to theme development.  But, we can use the same technique to handle our theme's <code>style.css</code> file.

I know there are plugins that compress <acronym title="Cascading Style Sheets">CSS</acronym> and do all kinds of nifty things to speed up page load times.  But, as theme developers, we shouldn't tell users to go use another plugin.  Let's provide a solution that works out of the box and educate them.  This solution is also extremely child theme friendly.  If your users aren't using child themes, they're probably going to be confused when editing a compressed <code>style.css</code> file.

## Turning on stylesheet debugging

To use this method, you must turn script debugging on in your WordPress install.  Don't do this on your live site.  It's only for your development install.

Open your <code>wp-config.php</code> file and add this line of code:

```
define( 'SCRIPT_DEBUG', true );
```

## Adding the stylesheet filter

To make use of a development stylesheet, you have to add a filter to <code>stylesheet_uri</code>.  Add this <acronym title="Hypertext Preprocessor">PHP</acronym> code to your theme's <code>functions.php</code> file:

```
add_filter( 'stylesheet_uri', 'my_debug_stylesheet', 10, 2 );

function my_debug_stylesheet( $stylesheet_uri, $stylesheet_dir_uri ) {

	if ( defined( 'SCRIPT_DEBUG' ) &amp;&amp; SCRIPT_DEBUG ) {
		$stylesheet = str_replace( trailingslashit( $stylesheet_dir_uri ), '', $stylesheet_uri );
		$stylesheet = str_replace( '.css', '.dev.css', $stylesheet );

		if ( file_exists( trailingslashit( STYLESHEETPATH ) . $stylesheet ) )
			$stylesheet_uri = trailingslashit( $stylesheet_dir_uri ) . $stylesheet;
	}

	return $stylesheet_uri;
}
```

This code will check if <code>SCRIPT_DEBUG</code> is turned on and if a <code>style.dev.css</code> file exists in your theme.  If the file does exist, it will be loaded instead of your <code>style.css</code> file.

## Creating development stylesheets

Now, that you've set up your theme, it's time to take advantage of development stylesheets.  All WordPress themes come packaged with a <code>style.css</code> file.  This system comes with two:

<ul>
	<li><code>style.css</code>:  For live use on the site.</li>
	<li><code>style.dev.css</code>: For use in development environments.</li>
</ul>

Rather than building our theme design inside of the normal <code>style.css</code> file, we're going to do it all in the <code>style.dev.css</code> file.  This will allow us to leave plenty of notes and comments.  This file could even be as large as 50kb because it won't be used live.

So, the first step in using this is copy over all your normal <code>style.css</code> code into your <code>style.dev.css</code> file.  Do all of your code work in this file.

When it's time to package the work up for public download, copy the contents of the <code>style.dev.css</code> file and transfer it over to <code>style.css</code>.  Then, compress the contents of <code>style.css</code>, leaving the normal theme information untouched.  The final code would look something like the below.

```
/**
 * Theme Name: Example
 * Theme URI: http://example.com
 * Description: A description of your theme.
 * Version: 0.1
 * Author: Your Name
 * Author URI: http://example.com
 * Tags: theme-options, threaded-comments
 */

html,body,div,span,object,h1,h2,h3,h4,h5,h6,p,blockquote,pre,a,abbr,acronym,address,big,cite,code,del,dfn,em,img,ins,kbd,q,samp,small,strong,sub,sup,tt,var,dl,dt,dd,ol,ul,li,fieldset,form,label,legend,table,caption,tbody,tfoot,thead,tr,th,td{margin:0;padding:0;vertical-align:baseline;outline:none;font-size:100%;background:transparent;border:none;text-decoration:none}
```

## <acronym title="Cascading Style Sheets">CSS</acronym> compression tools

You don't have to worry about compressing <acronym title="Cascading Style Sheets">CSS</acronym> files manually.  There are tools around the Web that do this for you.  Here's a list of some compressors:

<ul>
	<li><a href="http://www.cssdrive.com/index.php/main/csscompressor/" title="CSS Drive: CSS compressor"><acronym title="Cascading Style Sheets">CSS</acronym> Drive: <acronym title="Cascading Style Sheets">CSS</acronym> Compressor</a> (my favorite)</li>
	<li><a href="http://www.csscompressor.com/" title="CSS Compressor"><acronym title="Cascading Style Sheets">CSS</acronym> Compressor</a></li>
	<li><a href="http://www.cleancss.com" title="Clean CSS">Clean <acronym title="Cascading Style Sheets">CSS</acronym></a></li>
</ul>

Feel free to link to or let us know in the comments if you have any <acronym title="Cascading Style Sheets">CSS</acronym> compression tools that you like in particular.

## What makes this child-theme friendly?

A theme's <code>style.css</code> file is typically the first thing a user will hack to bits.  That's just the way it goes.  This would be a major problem if users wanted to do this and the <code>style.css</code> file was compressed.  Telling them about <code>SCRIPT_DEBUG</code> might also be an issue.

You, as a theme developer, should be promoting the use of child themes.

Rather than having your users editing the parent theme's <code>style.css</code> file, they should be importing it into their child theme's <code>style.css</code> like so:

```
@import( '../parent-theme/style.css' );
```

From there, they can overwrite any style rules they want.

Rather than calling this "child-theme friendly," I should probably say that it's a way to educate users on the benefits of using a child theme.  So, the first time a user asks why their child theme's <code>style.css</code> is unreadable, you can point them to one of the great tutorials around the Web on how to use child themes.
