---
title     : "2010"
author    : justintadlock
date      : 2010-02-01 04:38:00 -5
era       : alabama-again
category  : [blogging, health, life, new-year-goals]
thumbnail : "/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/02/2010-goals.png"
excerpt   : "The goals that I'd like to accomplish in my personal and online life in the 2010 year."
---

I've been putting off writing about my plans for 2010 way too long.  I typically have my goals listed before the new year rolls around, but I needed a little more time to gather my thoughts for this year.

My list of goals usually has too many things on it, and those goals change throughout the year.  This year, I'm going to try and keep it simple.

## Be healthier

I'm steering clear of the "get in shape" line and getting back to what's important &mdash; health.  This means I need to eat better and exercise more.

I've already dropped nearly 10 pounds in January by just eating better.

It's not all about physical health.  I need to get out and enjoy life more than I did last year.  I spent more time than necessary behind a computer screen, and that's not good for the ol' social life.  Just in case I'm feeling unmotivated, I'll keep my copy of <em>Yes Man</em> near the TV.  That movie always gears me up for a whirl out in the real world.

## Become an English teacher

Last year proved to be rough in the job hunting process.  I had never walked out of an interview and not gotten a job until last spring.  It wasn't the last failed interview either.

I've learned from my experience and have wedged my foot into a few doors over the past year.  This time around, I'm going to give it everything I can and land a teaching job.

If you feel like wishing me luck, I'll take all of it I can.

## Build an online empire

Honestly, I want to blog more this year.  Of course, I tell myself this a few times a week.

One of the reasons I don't blog as much is because it becomes tiring.  I sometimes spend hours working on a single blog post.  Doing that on a regular basis isn't much fun.

I need to reorganize some things around this site.  The biggest change I'll be making at some point this year will be the incorporation of a few <a href="http://core.trac.wordpress.org/ticket/9674" title="WordPress Trac: Better support for custom post types">custom post types</a>.  This will allow me to build the type of site I've been thinking about for the last couple of years and post content in ways that better suit my <a href="http://justintadlock.com/archives/2010/01/26/rule-2-the-guide-to-a-successful-blog" title="Rule #2: The guide to a successful blog">passions</a> in life.

I'll post more about my thoughts on this (and probably some tutorials on how I'll be doing it) in a future post.  For now, I'll give you a preview of a <a href="http://justintadlock.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/02/justin-tadlock-future.png" title="The future JustinTadlock.com">possible new home page</a>.

I also want to try my hand at a few <a href="http://www.binarymoon.co.uk/2009/11/art-direction/" title="Art Direction">art-directed posts</a>, which I hope will keep my creative juices flowing.

## No more goals?

Sure, I have loads of smaller goals.  While the smaller goals are sometimes just as important as the larger ones, they're usually steps that lead up to the major plans.  So, I wanted to provide an overall outlook at what I want to accomplish this year.
