---
title     : "2011 Goals"
author    : justintadlock
date      : 2011-01-17 18:48:00 -5
era       : alabama-again
category  : [blogging, health, life, new-year-goals]
thumbnail : "/blog/wp-content/uploads/2011/01/2011-goals.png"
excerpt   : "My personal and some professional goals I have set for 2011 and how I fared in my 2010 goals."
---

Like <a href="http://justintadlock.com/archives/2010/02/01/2010" title="2010">last year</a>, I'm a little behind on writing out my goals and resolutions for the new year.  At least this time, I'm getting the post published before February rolls around.

This year, things will be different...yada...yada...yada.  Yeah, you've heard that one before, right? (Bonus points to anyone that can guess why "yada" is one of my favorite words.)

<h2>Last year's goals</h2>

Let's take a look at last year's goals and see how I fared.

<ul>
	<li><strong>Be healthier:</strong>  Somewhat.  I'm healthier than I was at this point last year, but I'm nowhere near where I want to be.</li>
	<li><strong>Become a teacher:</strong>  Fail.  I co-authored a book (<a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0470916222?ie=UTF8&amp;tag=justtadl-20&amp;linkCode=as2&amp;camp=1789&amp;creative=9325&amp;creativeASIN=0470916222" title="'Professional WordPress Plugin Development' on Amazon.com">Professional WordPress Plugin Development</a>) instead.</li>
	<li><strong>Build an online empire:</strong>  Of course!  Really, this one was done in a half-joking manner, but I covered a few of the sub-points I wanted get to for this goal but not all of them.</li>
</ul>

I'm not disappointed that I didn't fully reach all of my goals last year.  I got some awesome opportunities that led me in some different directions, especially the book.  I was able to create some new goals as the year went on, which kept life interesting.

<h2>This year's goals</h2>

Here's a look at what I have planned for this year.  Feel free to call me out when you see me slipping on any of my goals throughout the year.

<h3>Read more</h3>

I probably read more than anyone I know &mdash; emails, support questions, blog posts, etc.  However, I don't read as many books as I used to.  My schedule is hectic, but I need to put more time into enjoying one of life's most relaxing pleasures.

<strong>The goal:</strong>  Read at least two books a month.  Ideally, I'd get in a few more.  I averaged about one book a month last year, so I'm stepping it up a notch.

<h3>Write more</h3>

I'm always telling myself I should write more blog posts.  There are quite a few ideas and thoughts bouncing around in my head that I need to unleash upon the world.  Of course, some other commitment usually gets in the way.  I <em>really</em> do plan on blogging more this year though.  Don't be surprised if you see a few posts on something other than WordPress.

<strong>The goal:</strong>  Make sure I post something on my blog every month, preferably a few posts.

<h3>More design, less development</h3>

When I first started using WordPress, I wanted to be a Web designer.  It didn't take me long to realize that I needed to know how to develop with <acronym title="Hypertext Preprocessor">PHP</acronym> to actually do anything cool.  Most of my work in the past few years has been largely focused on development.

Now that the <a href="http://themehybrid.com/hybrid-core" title="Hybrid Core theme development framework">Hybrid Core framework</a> is at a stable point, I don't have to spend as much time writing <acronym title="Hypertext Preprocessor">PHP</acronym> code and thinking of solutions for problems.  I can return to design.

<strong>The goal:</strong>  Put more energy into design and less into development.

<h3>Family time</h3>

I missed out on a lot of dinners, dominoes and rummy games, and just hanging out at my grandmother's house last year.  I should put in a few more weekends spending time with family instead of working.

<strong>The goal:</strong>  Schedule at least one weekend a month to spend time with family and friends.

<h3>Be healthier</h3>

Health should always be a priority.  I spent two years in the nutrition and food science program while in college and have been a part of numerous sports teams in the past, including winning three state championships in powerlifting.  I have the knowledge, so there's simply no excuse for me not being as healthy as I need to be.

This time around, I'm setting up more concrete goals.  Instead of just being healthy, I'm mapping out daily eating plans and workout routines.

<strong>The goal:</strong>  Eat properly six days a week and work out at least five days a week.  My target weight at the end of June is 215 lbs. and to put on more muscle weight after that.

<h2>Your goals?</h2>

That's a roundup of my goals for the year.  Do you have any goals or resolutions?  Feel free to link to a blog post you've written on them or let me know your plans for the year in the comments.
