---
title     : "Grid Columns WordPress Plugin"
author    : justintadlock
date      : 2012-10-03 11:38:00 -5
era       : life-with-shannon
category  : [wordpress, wordpress-plugins]
excerpt   : "Official release of the Grid Columns <code>&#091;column]</code> shortcode plugin."
---

As many of you know, I've been working on a <code>&#091;column]</code> shortcode plugin over the past few weeks to address a problem in the WordPress theme community.  Today, I've finally pushed this plugin live to the WordPress plugin repository.

You can download the plugin from its <a href="http://themehybrid.com/plugins/grid-columns" title="Grid Columns WordPress plugin">official page</a> on Theme Hybrid or from <a href="http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/grid-columns" title="WordPress plugin repository: Grid Columns">WordPress.org</a>.

<h2>What does the Grid Columns plugin do?</h2>

Grid Columns creates a single <code>&#091;column]</code> shortcode for use in your post content (or other shortcode-ready areas) to allow you to create columnized content.  It serves nothing more than that single function.

Full instructions are in the plugin's <code>readme.html</code> file with several usage examples, but the following is a small sampling of how to create columns (three-column example).

<pre><code>&#091;column grid="3" span="1"]Some example content.&#091;/column]

&#091;column grid="3" span="1"]Some example content.&#091;/column]

&#091;column grid="3" span="1"]Some example content.&#091;/column]</code></pre>

<h2>Why was the plugin created?</h2>

The goal of the plugin is to get theme developers to stop adding column shortcodes to their themes.  There's a few reasons this theme development practice is wrong:

<ul>
	<li>It locks users into using their current theme forever.</li>
	<li>It creates 20+ shortcodes for what is possible for one.  This makes it look like themes have more "features."</li>
	<li>It typically removes core WordPress filters that other plugins rely on.</li>
	<li>The code is just poorly developed altogether (most likely because it's all copied from the same, bad tutorial).</li>
</ul>

If you're a theme developer, please stop doing this.  Encourage your users to install this plugin.  If your users are having a hard time figuring out how to install a plugin, that's a lame excuse for keeping the functionality in your theme.  Educate them.  Heck, send them to me; I'll teach them.

If you're a user, even if your theme has column shortcodes, I encourage you to install and use this plugin instead.  It'll save you some major headaches down the road when you want to switch themes.

<h2>Download the plugin</h2>

You can get the plugin from any of the three following places.

<ul>
	<li><a href="http://themehybrid.com/plugins/grid-columns" title="Grid Columns WordPress plugin">Theme Hybrid</a></li>
	<li><a href="http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/grid-columns" title="WordPress plugin repository: Grid Columns">WordPress.org</a></li>
	<li><a href="https://github.com/justintadlock/grid-columns" title="GitHub: Grid Columns">GitHub</a></li>
</ul>

I hope you enjoy the plugin.  Please ask any and all support questions on the Theme Hybrid <a href="http://themehybrid.com/support" title="Theme Hybrid support forums">support forums</a>.  Feel free to leave feedback in the comments.
