---
title     : "Post Formats: Quote"
author    : justintadlock
date      : 2012-08-27 11:26:00 -5
era       : life-with-shannon
category  : [wordpress, wordpress-tutorials]
excerpt   : 'A solution for the "quote" post format that handles the inconsistencies in how users write their post content.'
---

The quote post format is generally pretty easy for theme developers to handle, at least one would think so.  Quotes are one of my favorite post formats, so I want to make sure theme authors are getting it right.

The purpose of this tutorial is to provide theme authors a method for dealing with the inconsistencies in how users input their quote content.

<h2>Current methods</h2>

The most-common methods I've seen for handling quotes assume one of two things:

<ul>
	<li>The user has marked up their quote content with a <code>&lt;blockquote></code>.</li>
	<li>The user hasn't marked up their quote content with a <code>&lt;blockquote></code>.</li>
</ul>

Assuming just one or the other of those uses will fall apart in the real world.  My proposed solution is to account for both possibilities.

<h2>The quote post format</h2>

The WordPress Codex <a href="http://codex.wordpress.org/Post_Formats" title="Post formats">defines</a> the quote post format as the following:

> A quotation. Probably will contain a blockquote holding the quote content. Alternatively, the quote may be just the content, with the source/author being the title.

As you can see, even the WordPress documentation notes this inconsistency in how quote content may be written by the user.

<h2>The code</h2>

The easiest way to deal with the quote post format is to make sure the content always has a <code>&lt;blockquote></code> element.  If the user has added it, do nothing.  If the user didn't add it, the theme should.

Adding the following <abbr title="Hypertext Preprocessor">PHP</abbr> code to your theme's <code>functions.php</code> file will handle this functionality.

```
add_filter( 'the_content', 'my_quote_content' );

function my_quote_content( $content ) {

	/* Check if we're displaying a 'quote' post. */
	if ( has_post_format( 'quote' ) ) {

		/* Match any &lt;blockquote> elements. */
		preg_match( '/&lt;blockquote.*?>/', $content, $matches );

		/* If no &lt;blockquote> elements were found, wrap the entire content in one. */
		if ( empty( $matches ) )
			$content = "&lt;blockquote>{$content}&lt;/blockquote>";
	}

	return $content;
}
```

I've been using this method in my themes for quite a while now.  It seems to be working out great because I've had no complaints from users.  My guess is that they don't even know what's going on behind the scenes.

<h2>Styling quotes</h2>

This is what this post is really all about.  Theme developers need a way to consistently style quote posts.  Using the above method should simplify styling for you because you know for a fact the <code>&lt;blockquote></code> element is used.

You can use the following <abbr title="Cascading Stylesheets">CSS</abbr> to modify the posts.

```
/* Style the quote post wrapper. */
.format-quote {}

/* Style blockquotes within the quote post. */
.format-quote blockquote {}

/* Don't forget cite in case a user makes use of it. */
.format-quote cite {}
```

<h2>The excerpt v.s. the content</h2>

Don't use <code>the_excerpt()</code> when displaying quotes for the following reasons.

<ul>
	<li>Quotes should be short enough that an excerpt isn't necessary.</li>
	<li>Users aren't likely to write a custom excerpt for these posts.</li>
</ul>

So, when you're displaying quotes in your theme, stick to calling <code>the_content()</code>.
