---
title     : "Human kindness has no bounds"
author    : justintadlock
date      : 2013-12-18 17:44:00 -5
era       : life-with-shannon
category  : life
---

Little did I know that I'd be writing this post the very next day after [launching a campaign](https://www.crowdtilt.com/campaigns/help-buy-a-house-for-christmas) to buy a home.  I published the [launch post](/archives/2013/12/17/help-me-get-a-house-for-christmas) at 12:06 p.m. and managed to hit the target goal of $5,000 in just over 24 hours.  I thought I'd be fortunate to reach half that in the 25-day span the campaign is planned to run.

Most of this is due in large part to the WordPress community.  I had some friends and family contribute too and will be eternally grateful for their help.  However, the WordPress community really made this thing happen.  Through social networks, mostly Twitter, you all managed to make this a successful campaign from day one.

I fancy myself a writer at times.  I feel like I should be writing a grandiose 5,000-word essay on the state of humankind's ability to be charitable and show generosity.  However, I'm not sure simple words can convey my gratitude.  So, I'll do the one thing I can do right now and simply say thank you.

## Campaign updates

At the time of writing, the campaign has reached $5,608.50.  This is beyond anything I'd hoped for.

I will keep the campaign open for some time though, probably until after the first of the new year.  Every little bit extra helps.

I'll get to work on that permanent, public thank you page for everyone as well as the pledges I made.  Be sure to email me if you want to take advantage of any of those pledges.  I know some of you said you didn't want anything in return, but I'll be more than happy to give back.
