---
title              : "The Beginning of a Dawn"
author             : justintadlock
date               : 2008-04-05 00:00:00 -5
literary_form      : [fiction, short-story]
literary_genre     : fan-fiction
literary_technique : prose
---

<em>Note:</em> This fanfiction will not be finished.  So, don't get too interested and hope that I write more.

<em>Spoilers:</em>  Season 5, Buffy The Vampire Slayer
<em>Characters:</em>  Dawn, Spike

------

<h2>Chapter 1</h2>

"Ugghhh......"  Dawn walks out of the room in disgust.

Buffy's arms cross and her chin tightens her face.  By the looks of it, she is
totally annoyed.

"You shouldn't be so hard on her, Buffy."  The red-head,Willow, harks in, trying to keep the situation under control.

"I just can't believe her.  She is outta control."  Buffy turns and walks her own way up the stairs of her home not even thinking about Dawn.  Well, not worried, but definitely thinking hard about all the ways she wishes she could punish her pesky little sis.'

Dawn had already made it up to her room and packed her bookbag with a few items.  More precise, she filled it with her diary, enough clothes to last...Well...like day.  Light packer for a girl.  Of course, she got the essentials, also.  A vile of Holy Water, a couple of stakes, and a cross.  More weapons than clothes.  To the typical person it might seem she was in some sort of Holy Gang of some sort, out to reak vengeance on the evil of the world.  Not in Sunnydale, California, though.  That's the way you had to pack.

Dawn threw on her khaki sweater over her t-shirt, and was ready to head out.  She could hear Buffy and Willow behind her locked bedroom door arguing over
this little mishap.  She figured she couldn't make it out the front door, but she peeked out into the hallway just to check.  Hmmm...Buffy's door closed.  So Dawn stepped on out into the hall and made her way downstairs and out the front door.

Away...Finally...

She was going to be free from this Hell Hole she'd been living in she told herself.  <i>Everything's always about Buffy.  Well, I'll show her!</i>

Suprisingly, she made it safely over to Spike's sorry excuse for a home and
barged in.

"Whoa!  Whoa!  Whoa!  Who the Hell do you think you are just comin' in all
uninvit....Oh....Sorry...Love."  Spike toned down a little, to not envoke any more salt on the wet face of the girl he was facing.

Dawn wiped her face abruptly trying to hide the tears she'd worn the whole way
over.

"What's wrong?"

"Why does everything always have to be Buffy's way?"

"Oh...The Slayer..."  Spike smirked, and shook his head slowly, not knowing what to think.  "Well, Love..."

"Spike. I want you to do something for me?"

Growing happy, Spike quickly responded, "Sure.  Wanna go steal something?  Kill some demons?  I'm up for anything."

"No, I want you to turn me into a Vampire."

"Now that's a serious thing you're talkin' about doin' there."

"Spike.  I am serious.  I've thought this thing over a thousand times, and noone can change my mind.  And I want you to change me tonight."

"Well...Love...I would, but I have this sodding chip stuck in my head.  And I think if I actually drunk that much from you my bloody head would explode."

"Com'on.  Spike.  You know it would only hurt for a little while.  And then we
could..."

"I'll tell you what...If you can help me find someone to get this bloody thing outta my head then I'll help you out."

Dawn walked over to the sacarphagus and sat down.  Of course, Spike followed,
being the more generous vampire these days.  He put his arm around her while
she tried to clean more tears away.

"It's gonna be okay, Love"

Dawn looked up at Spike, holding heavily on his eyes.

"You okay, Lo...."  She touched her lips to his, but backing away gently, scared at what the vampire might think.  Then Spike grabbed her fiercely, locking his arms around her back.  Then he thought about what he was doing.  So he slowed down to a gentler pace.  He couldn't be all wild and erratic with someone so precious.  He could feel her heart pumping fast...faster.  The smell of fear on her started to roll away, only to be replaced with comfort, joy, then more fear.

They pulled away abruptly......The door was kicked open.

"What are you doing here!"  Buffy, angered more than she was when Dawn had left the
house.

<em>Disclaimer:</em>  All characters and some story references are property of Joss Whedon, Mutant Enemy, Kazui Sandollar, FOX and/or the WB.

<!--nextpage-->

<h2>Chapter 2</h2>

"Ummm...."  Dawn, was still trying to catch her breath from the momentary heat of Spike's returned kiss, and the abruptness of Buffy's enter.

"Um. Nothing.  You know you shouldn't be here.  Especially without permission."

"Why do I need per......"

"Go wait outside," for the second time that night Dawn ran out because of Buffy.  "Spike!"

"Big Sis' come to save Lil' Sis' from the Big Bad."

"What was she doing here?"

"Just havin' a lil' chat.  Nothin' to worry over.  Plus she's old enough...."  Buffy placed a swift blow to Spike's nose.  "Bloody Hell!  What'd you do that for."

"Cause I just felt like it."

Spike rubbed his nose gently as to not promote any more pain as he watched Buffy walk out.  <i>That Slayer.....  Oooooh....  Nice Ass....</i>  "Well.....Actually, I appreciate the punch in the nose.  Thanks for the fresh blood, seein' as how I can't get any these days."  Spike licked his lips as his own blood trickled from his nostrils.

------

"Hello, Sunnydale..."  Cordelia frowned while she took a seat with Buffy, Angel, Willow, and Xander at the Bronze.

"Do you always have to be such a, umm.... let me think, Loser..."  Buffy chimed in.

Angel frustrated already with the situation, "So what's going on?  You did call us to come all the way down from a L.A."

"I'm not sure yet.  Giles just said that we would need your help on this one.  He's still researching."

"So you brought us to the Bronze?"  Cordelia shakes her head and smirks knowing she'd won this battle of words with just that comment alone.

"For your information, I thought we'd have a little fun and catch up while we wait.  But I see you haven't changed a bit."

"Please..."

Angel, more frustrated, "Where's Dawn?"

"Oh, I had to go fetch Spike to watch her for a while."

Cordelia's grin really grew at that moment.  "So you left her with a brutal killer.  But hey, what's a big sister who's a vampire slayer for?"

"So...Angel...Which one should I tie up and gag?"  Xander had to throw in his line somewhere in the midst of all this.  "Buffy, Cordelia, or both?"

"Okay.  Let's just make nice and listen to the band."  Of course, Willow is always willing to give her sound advice.  "You left her with Spike!"

"It's okay.  He can't hurt a soul.  And if anything happened to her, he knows I'd stake him."

"Well...I-I guess that'd be okay."

Angel, really just wanting to get to the bottom of the situation, "Do you know anything about what we're up against?"

"I don't know.  Some demony thing.  Just a little bigger than usual."

"Well that's not saying much."

"We have Giles and Wesley working on it.  They'll figure out something.  And plus, I didn't even ask you to come.  Giles did."

Cordelia hops up from the table.  "Well then, I guess we'll just have to leave this crappy town then won't we?"

"Cordelia.  We're not going anywhere.  If Giles thinks that we're needed, then it's going to be something big."  Angel having to put some reason into Cordelia.

"I don't know how Angel even puts up with you."

"Hey! I'm vision girl here!"

------

"So Love...What do you say we do tonight?"

Dawn looks up at Spike.  "Well we could start where we left off the last time we were together."

"Hmmm...Sounds dangerous don' you think?  I mean, Buffy could show up any minute."

"Don't you like danger?  They do call you the Big Bad don't they?"

"I'm hardly a lil' bad with this bloody chip pet."

"Well...I have a solution to that."

"You don' say?"

"But you have to get it out of me first."

"Like this..."  Spike tickles the little girl furiously.

"Okay.  Okay.  I'll tell you if you stop..."

"You remember that vision that Cordelia had when she first got here?"

"Yeah...So..."

"The man in trouble actually turned out to be the bad man who causes the trouble.  Who, by the way, is a doctor that specializes in...Well...Demons...Vampires...things like that...."

"Yeah.  That'd be great.  But seein' how he's dead, I don' see what that has to do with us?"

"Well, he had an address book with all sorts of names.  A few of them who just so happened to be demon doctors just like himself."

"That's my sweet pet that I adore."

Spike tightly embraced dawn in his pale arms.....
