---
title              : "Less Than Ethically Fit"
author             : justintadlock
date               : 2008-04-05 00:00:00 -5
literary_form      : essay
literary_technique : prose
excerpt            : "Essay on the ethics of <em>Buffy The Vampire Slayer</em>."
---

I sit reading through some topics on <em> Buffy The Vampire Slayer</em> when I begin to wonder how this show could be a series of good morale.  It is filled with demons, witchcraft, pre-marital sex, and many other things that aren't considered to be in a class of high values.  I came upon an article, <a href="http://www.christianitytoday.com/ct/2002/136/31.0.html" rel="external" title="View The Article"> Don't Let Your Kids Watch Buffy The Vampire Slayer</a>, just earlier this morning.  Really and Truly, I was looking for something to write for the cover story this week, when this fell in my lap.  Seeing as how the article was on <a href="http://www.christianitytoday.com" rel="external"> Christianity Today</a> I just knew they were going to take an ethical stand against our so loved <em> Buffy</em>.  So, of course, I had to read on.

What I found, to my surprise actually, wasn't a moral stand against the show.  It was instead praising the show for its, even though flawed by witchcraft and such, story and overall theme.  And believe me, I've read many articles depicting <em> Buffy</em> as the devil herself.  I was happy to see that a person of Christian values see this show as more than the boxcover.

Okay...So we say that <em> Buffy</em> isn't just some silly comedy about things that shouldn't be on our television.  Sure, it's not a kids show.  The show deals with much more than what children could understand.  It shows teenagers growing into adult roles in life, and how they handle the transition.  A lot of people don't understand that, or don't look at it from that perspective at all.  Tell me, how many people would watch a show about a teenager going door to door preaching.  Not many.  He'd get thrown out of 90% of the doors he knocked on.  Now, don't get me wrong, I'm not anti-Christian.  I'm just speaking the truth.  There has to be a way to get through to people.  You have to make a series that people can relate to.  Now you say, <em> How do people relate to demons?</em>  That's the whole point here.  We are dealing with demons in our everyday lives.  Our inner-demons are much more frightening than the ones on the show.

One thing that really stood out in the article, <a href="http://www.christianitytoday.com/ct/2002/136/31.0.html" rel="external" title="View The Article"> Don't Let Your Kids Watch Buffy The Vampire Slayer</a>, was Todd Hertz's view on Willow's evil witchcraft in the last few paragraphs.

<blockquote>
"...At first, the bookworm found it innocent and enticing. Over a few years however, simple tinkering (like levitating pencils) led to darker business. Witchcraft consumed her and hurt those around her. A personal tragedy sent her off the deep end. She killed a human (something taken seriously on Buffy) and threatened others. Willow, with black eyes and dark clothes, raised a pagan temple to use its powers to end the world.

But someone stopped her. It wasn't the chosen one with her super strength. Nor was it someone fighting her witchcraft with more witchcraft. Instead, a friend since kindergarten stood in her way-not armed with a crossbow, but with love.

'You've been my best friend my whole life,' Xander told her. 'If we are all going to end, where else would I want to be? I know you are in pain and I know you are about to do something apocalyptically stupid but ... it doesn't matter, I still love you.'

Hatred, vengeance, and witchcraft turned Willow evil, but Xander's unconditional love showed that no sinner is beyond grace. Moments like this explain why Christians such as myself watch Buffy the Vampire Slayer."
</blockquote>

That's the kind of things that really make us watch <em> Buffy The Vampire Slayer</em>.  It's not the fight scenes, the demons, the witchcraft, it's the feeling of we're not alone in our problems.  That's just it.  Maybe this isn't a show for kids.  Well, it isn't.  Lucky them. They don't have to deal with these problems for a few more years.

## Sources

<ul>
<li><a href="http://www.christianitytoday.com/ct/2002/136/31.0.html" rel="external" title="View The Article">Don't Let Your Kids Watch Buffy The Vampire Slayer</a></li>
<li><a href="http://www.christianitytoday.com" rel="external" title="View The Website">Christianity Today</a></li>
</ul>
