---
title              : "The Wind Is Blowing"
author             : justintadlock
date               : 2008-04-05 00:00:00 -5
literary_form      : [fiction, short-story]
literary_genre     : old
literary_technique : prose
---

_Note: Written sometime in high school in Mrs. Betts class (likely 2001)._

------

The leaves ruffled beneath the morning bright sky.  You could hear a whistle through the cool air.  In the distance I heard a quite scream.  I started walking toward the sound, which was continually growing louder.  It now seemed only a feet away.  I looked around trying to find the source of the loud noise.  Then I saw a young boy of the age of about twelve.  He must have been at least five years younger than me.

"What's wrong?" I asked as I helped him to his feet.

"There's something after me.  We've got to run."

The wind began to blow harder, growing more furious.  We started to run back toward my house when suddenly something passed by us in the distance.

"What was that?" I panickly asked in fear.

"That's it," he said.  "That's the thing that's after me.  We've got to get out of here."

Leaves continued to fall from the trees by the angry wind as we started back to get out of those horrid woods.  We were gaining ground as I heard a startling growl.  I continued to run out of fear.  The house was in my view.  Then suddenly a huge limb from a nearby tree flew by me, almost knocking me over as it scrubbed my arm.

"We're almost there," I said as I huffed to get more air in my lungs.  I heard no answer from the young boy.  So I turned around to see the revolting monster sink his teeth into the boy's leg.  The wind grew more fierce and blew the terror off of the boy.

"Let's go!"  he yelled as he got up limping; but still running.  I said nothing, but I ran.

When I got on the porch I turned back to see the frightening thing I had just saw.  It was lying still on the ground being covered by leaves that were being blown by the hostile wind.  I stepped into the house to see the boy's nasty wound on his leg had healed.

Well, at least now the horror is over.  I believe it is, or is it just beginning?
